guide/security/api-keys.mdx, before:

---
title: "API Keys"
---

## Reveal and copy API key
To copy your API key, go to the **Developers > API keys** section and click the Reveal button. 
This will display the selected API key, allowing you to copy it to your clipboard.

<Frame caption="Reveal your API keys">
<img src="/guide/security/images/reveal-api-key.png" />
</Frame>

## Create an API key
<Info>

**PREMIUM FEATURE** ✨

This feature is only available to users with a premium license. Please
**[contact us](mailto:hello@getlago.com)** to get access to Lago Cloud and Lago
Self-Hosted Premium.

</Info>

To create a new API key, navigate to the **Developers > API keys** section and click the Add a key button.
You will be prompted to provide an optional Name. While naming the key is not mandatory, it is highly recommended to make it easier to identify later. Once created, the API key will be ready for immediate use.

Whenever a new API key is created, all organization admins are notified via email. The key becomes active and usable instantly.

## Roll an API key

### API key roll instantly
To roll an API key, navigate to the **Developers > API keys** section and click the Roll API key button. A new API key will be generated instantly, and the previous key will immediately become inactive and unusable.

Whenever an API key is rolled, all organization admins receive an email notification. The newly generated key becomes active and ready for use immediately.

### Schedule an API key roll
<Info>

**PREMIUM FEATURE** ✨

This feature is only available to users with a premium license. Please
**[contact us](mailto:hello@getlago.com)** to get access to Lago Cloud and Lago
Self-Hosted Premium.

</Info>

With this feature, you can schedule an API key roll for a future time. Options include rolling the key `now`, in `1 hour`, `24 hours`, `48 hours`, or `7 days`. By hovering over the current API key, you can view the scheduled roll time.

Whenever an API key is rolled, all organization admins receive an email notification. The newly generated key becomes active and ready for use immediately, while the previous key remains available until the scheduled roll time is reached.


## API key "Last used" field
For security purposes, a Last used field displays the last time this API key was accessed. This serves as a helpful indicator to determine if the key is still actively in use.

Commit message:

doc(API key): delete an API key

guide/security/api-keys.mdx, after:

---
title: "API Keys"
---

## Reveal and copy API key
To copy your API key, go to the **Developers > API keys** section and click the Reveal button. 
This will display the selected API key, allowing you to copy it to your clipboard.

<Frame caption="Reveal your API keys">
<img src="/guide/security/images/reveal-api-key.png" />
</Frame>

## Create an API key
<Info>

**PREMIUM FEATURE** ✨

This feature is only available to users with a premium license. Please
**[contact us](mailto:hello@getlago.com)** to get access to Lago Cloud and Lago
Self-Hosted Premium.

</Info>

To create a new API key, navigate to the **Developers > API keys** section and click the Add a key button.
You will be prompted to provide an optional Name. While naming the key is not mandatory, it is highly recommended to make it easier to identify later. Once created, the API key will be ready for immediate use.

Whenever a new API key is created, all organization admins are notified via email. The key becomes active and usable instantly.

## Roll an API key

### API key roll instantly
To roll an API key, navigate to the **Developers > API keys** section and click the Roll API key button. A new API key will be generated instantly, and the previous key will immediately become inactive and unusable.

Whenever an API key is rolled, all organization admins receive an email notification. The newly generated key becomes active and ready for use immediately.

### Schedule an API key roll
<Info>

**PREMIUM FEATURE** ✨

This feature is only available to users with a premium license. Please
**[contact us](mailto:hello@getlago.com)** to get access to Lago Cloud and Lago
Self-Hosted Premium.

</Info>

With this feature, you can schedule an API key roll for a future time. Options include rolling the key `now`, in `1 hour`, `24 hours`, `48 hours`, or `7 days`. By hovering over the current API key, you can view the scheduled roll time.

Whenever an API key is rolled, all organization admins receive an email notification. The newly generated key becomes active and ready for use immediately, while the previous key remains available until the scheduled roll time is reached.


## Delete an API key
To delete an API key, navigate to the **Developers > API keys** section and click the delete button. The API key will be permanently deleted and immediately rendered unusable.
Please note that you can only delete an API key if your organization has more than one API key defined.


## API key "Last used" field
For security purposes, a Last used field displays the last time this API key was accessed. This serves as a helpful indicator to determine if the key is still actively in use.
