guide/analytics/invoiced-usage-revenue.mdx, before:

---
title: "Invoiced usage"
---

Invoiced usage represents the quantified value of consumption-based metrics that have been formally invoiced.
This usage can encompass a wide spectrum, including both metered and recurring usage-based metrics.
It doesn't matter whether these charges are settled in advance or in arrears, or whether they involve proration.

It's important to note that usage for the current month is not factored into this calculation.
This omission is due to the inherent uncertainty of current consumption, which hasn't yet been formalized through
invoicing processes.

<Tabs>
  <Tab title="Dashboard"> 
    To access the invoiced usage analytics dashboard:

    1. Navigate to the "Analytics" section; and
    2. Access the "Invoiced usage" Dashboard.

    <Frame caption="Invoiced usage dashboard">
      <img src="/guide/analytics/images/invoiced-usage.png" />
    </Frame>

   </Tab>
     <Tab title="API">
    <CodeGroup>
    ```bash Get Invoiced Usage revenue 
    ```
    </CodeGroup>
  </Tab>
  <Tab title="SQL Query">
    <Info>
       The generated amounts are in cents, making it compatible with different currencies.
    </Info>
    <CodeGroup>
    ```sql SQL Query used by Lago
        -- Get creation date of the organization
        WITH organization_creation_date AS (
            SELECT
                DATE_TRUNC('month', o.created_at) AS start_month
            FROM organizations o
            WHERE o.id = 'dfe27099-c2c0-4d64-9f08-3a7e26e00e1d'
        ),

        -- Generate a series of future months
        all_months AS (
            SELECT
                generate_series(
                    (SELECT start_month FROM organization_creation_date),
                    DATE_TRUNC('month', CURRENT_DATE + INTERVAL '10 years'),
                    interval '1 month'
                ) AS month
        ),

        -- Get revenue for all usage-based fees (charge type)
        usage_fees AS (
            SELECT
                f.charge_id,
                f.amount_cents::float,
                f.amount_currency AS currency,
                f.created_at AS fee_created_at
            FROM fees f
            LEFT JOIN subscriptions s ON s.id = f.subscription_id
            LEFT JOIN customers c ON c.id = s.customer_id
            WHERE f.invoiceable_type = 'Charge'
                AND f.fee_type = 0
                AND c.organization_id = 'dfe27099-c2c0-4d64-9f08-3a7e26e00e1d'
        ),

        -- Get total revenue for all billable metrics
        total_revenue_per_bm AS (
            SELECT
                DATE_TRUNC('month', uf.fee_created_at) AS month,
                bm.code,
                uf.currency,
                COALESCE(SUM(amount_cents), 0) AS amount_cents
            FROM usage_fees uf
            LEFT JOIN charges c ON c.id = uf.charge_id
            LEFT JOIN billable_metrics bm ON bm.id = c.billable_metric_id
            GROUP BY month, code, currency
            ORDER BY month
        )

        -- Select the desired results
        SELECT
            am.month,
            trpmb.code,
            trpmb.currency,
            trpmb.amount_cents
        FROM all_months AS am
        LEFT JOIN total_revenue_per_bm trpmb ON trpmb.month = am.month
        WHERE am.month <= DATE_TRUNC('month', CURRENT_DATE)
            AND trpmb.currency IS NOT NULL
            AND trpmb.amount_cents IS NOT NULL
        ORDER BY am.month DESC, trpmb.amount_cents DESC;
    ```
    </CodeGroup>

  </Tab>
</Tabs>

Commit message:

add premium tooltip for premium analytics

guide/analytics/invoiced-usage-revenue.mdx, after:

---
title: "Invoiced usage"
---

<Info>

**PREMIUM FEATURE** ✨

This dashboard is only available to users with a premium license. Please
**[contact us](mailto:hello@getlago.com)** to get access to Lago Cloud and Lago
Self-Hosted Premium.

</Info>

Invoiced usage represents the quantified value of consumption-based metrics that have been formally invoiced.
This usage can encompass a wide spectrum, including both metered and recurring usage-based metrics.
It doesn't matter whether these charges are settled in advance or in arrears, or whether they involve proration.

It's important to note that usage for the current month is not factored into this calculation.
This omission is due to the inherent uncertainty of current consumption, which hasn't yet been formalized through
invoicing processes.

<Tabs>
  <Tab title="Dashboard"> 
    To access the invoiced usage analytics dashboard:

    1. Navigate to the "Analytics" section; and
    2. Access the "Invoiced usage" Dashboard.

    <Frame caption="Invoiced usage dashboard">
      <img src="/guide/analytics/images/invoiced-usage.png" />
    </Frame>

   </Tab>
     <Tab title="API">
    <CodeGroup>
    ```bash Get Invoiced Usage revenue 
    ```
    </CodeGroup>
  </Tab>
  <Tab title="SQL Query">
    <Info>
       The generated amounts are in cents, making it compatible with different currencies.
    </Info>
    <CodeGroup>
    ```sql SQL Query used by Lago
        -- Get creation date of the organization
        WITH organization_creation_date AS (
            SELECT
                DATE_TRUNC('month', o.created_at) AS start_month
            FROM organizations o
            WHERE o.id = '__YOUR_ORGANIZATION_ID__'
        ),

        -- Generate a series of future months
        all_months AS (
            SELECT
                generate_series(
                    (SELECT start_month FROM organization_creation_date),
                    DATE_TRUNC('month', CURRENT_DATE + INTERVAL '10 years'),
                    interval '1 month'
                ) AS month
        ),

        -- Get revenue for all usage-based fees (charge type)
        usage_fees AS (
            SELECT
                f.charge_id,
                f.amount_cents::float,
                f.amount_currency AS currency,
                f.created_at AS fee_created_at
            FROM fees f
            LEFT JOIN subscriptions s ON s.id = f.subscription_id
            LEFT JOIN customers c ON c.id = s.customer_id
            WHERE f.invoiceable_type = 'Charge'
                AND f.fee_type = 0
                AND c.organization_id = '__YOUR_ORGANIZATION_ID__'
        ),

        -- Get total revenue for all billable metrics
        total_revenue_per_bm AS (
            SELECT
                DATE_TRUNC('month', uf.fee_created_at) AS month,
                bm.code,
                uf.currency,
                COALESCE(SUM(amount_cents), 0) AS amount_cents
            FROM usage_fees uf
            LEFT JOIN charges c ON c.id = uf.charge_id
            LEFT JOIN billable_metrics bm ON bm.id = c.billable_metric_id
            GROUP BY month, code, currency
            ORDER BY month
        )

        -- Select the desired results
        SELECT
            am.month,
            trpmb.code,
            trpmb.currency,
            trpmb.amount_cents
        FROM all_months AS am
        LEFT JOIN total_revenue_per_bm trpmb ON trpmb.month = am.month
        WHERE am.month <= DATE_TRUNC('month', CURRENT_DATE)
            AND trpmb.currency IS NOT NULL
            AND trpmb.amount_cents IS NOT NULL
        ORDER BY am.month DESC, trpmb.amount_cents DESC;
    ```
    </CodeGroup>

  </Tab>
</Tabs>
