guide/analytics/outstanding-invoices.mdx, before:

---
title: "Outstanding invoices"
---

Our dashboard empowers you with insights into the number of invoices and their respective values across all payment statuses.
This means you can easily track the count of invoices with failed, pending, or successful payment statuses.

By simply clicking on any of the rows, you can gain access to a detailed list of invoices categorized by their status.
This feature proves valuable when you need to initiate a new payment intent or take specific actions related to invoice management.

<Tabs>
  <Tab title="Dashboard"> 
    To access the Outstanding invoices analytics dashboard:

    1. Navigate to the "Analytics" section; and
    2. Access the "Outstanding invoices" Dashboard.

    <Frame caption="Oustanding invoices dashboard">
      <img src="/guide/analytics/images/outstanding-invoices.png" />
    </Frame>

   </Tab>
     <Tab title="API">
    <CodeGroup>```bash Get Oustanding Invoices ```</CodeGroup>
  </Tab>
    <Tab title="SQL Query">
        <Info>
        The generated amounts are in cents, making it compatible with different currencies.
        </Info>
        <CodeGroup>
        ```sql SQL Query used by Lago
            --- Get start date of the organization
            WITH organization_creation_date AS (
                SELECT
                    DATE_TRUNC('month', o.created_at) AS start_month
                FROM organizations o
                WHERE o.id = 'dfe27099-c2c0-4d64-9f08-3a7e26e00e1d'
            )

            --- Generate a series of months
            , all_months AS (
                SELECT
                    generate_series(
                        (SELECT start_month FROM organization_creation_date),
                        DATE_TRUNC('month', CURRENT_DATE + INTERVAL '10 years'),
                        interval '1 month'
                    ) AS month
            )

            --- Get invoice number and value per status
            ,invoices_per_status AS (
                SELECT
                    DATE_TRUNC('month', i.issuing_date) AS month,
                    i.currency,
                    CASE
                        WHEN i.payment_status = 0 THEN 'pending'
                        WHEN i.payment_status = 1 THEN 'paid'
                        WHEN i.payment_status = 2 THEN 'failed'
                    END AS payment_status,
                    COALESCE(COUNT(*), 0) AS number_invoices,
                    COALESCE(SUM(i.total_amount_cents::float), 0) AS amount_cents
                FROM invoices i
                WHERE i.organization_id = 'dfe27099-c2c0-4d64-9f08-3a7e26e00e1d'
                    AND i.status = 1 --- ONLY FINALIZED INVOICES
                GROUP BY payment_status, month, currency
            )

            --- Get invoice total and amount per status per month till the current month
            SELECT
                am.month,
                payment_status,
                currency,
                COALESCE(number_invoices, 0) AS number_invoices,
                COALESCE(amount_cents, 0) AS amount_cents
            FROM all_months am
            LEFT JOIN invoices_per_status ips ON ips.month = am.month AND ips.payment_status IS NOT NULL
            WHERE am.month <= DATE_TRUNC('month', CURRENT_DATE)
                AND payment_status IS NOT NULL
                ---AND currency = '' --- Filter by currency if needed
            ORDER BY am.month, payment_status, currency;
        ```
        </CodeGroup>

  </Tab>
</Tabs>

Commit message:

add premium tooltip for premium analytics

guide/analytics/outstanding-invoices.mdx, after:

---
title: "Outstanding invoices"
---

<Info>

**PREMIUM FEATURE** ✨

This dashboard is only available to users with a premium license. Please
**[contact us](mailto:hello@getlago.com)** to get access to Lago Cloud and Lago
Self-Hosted Premium.

</Info>

Our dashboard empowers you with insights into the number of invoices and their respective values across all payment statuses.
This means you can easily track the count of invoices with failed, pending, or successful payment statuses.

By simply clicking on any of the rows, you can gain access to a detailed list of invoices categorized by their status.
This feature proves valuable when you need to initiate a new payment intent or take specific actions related to invoice management.

<Tabs>
  <Tab title="Dashboard"> 
    To access the Outstanding invoices analytics dashboard:

    1. Navigate to the "Analytics" section; and
    2. Access the "Outstanding invoices" Dashboard.

    <Frame caption="Oustanding invoices dashboard">
      <img src="/guide/analytics/images/outstanding-invoices.png" />
    </Frame>

   </Tab>
     <Tab title="API">
    <CodeGroup>```bash Get Oustanding Invoices ```</CodeGroup>
  </Tab>
    <Tab title="SQL Query">
        <Info>
        The generated amounts are in cents, making it compatible with different currencies.
        </Info>
        <CodeGroup>
        ```sql SQL Query used by Lago
            --- Get start date of the organization
            WITH organization_creation_date AS (
                SELECT
                    DATE_TRUNC('month', o.created_at) AS start_month
                FROM organizations o
                WHERE o.id = '__YOUR_ORGANIZATION_ID__'
            )

            --- Generate a series of months
            , all_months AS (
                SELECT
                    generate_series(
                        (SELECT start_month FROM organization_creation_date),
                        DATE_TRUNC('month', CURRENT_DATE + INTERVAL '10 years'),
                        interval '1 month'
                    ) AS month
            )

            --- Get invoice number and value per status
            ,invoices_per_status AS (
                SELECT
                    DATE_TRUNC('month', i.issuing_date) AS month,
                    i.currency,
                    CASE
                        WHEN i.payment_status = 0 THEN 'pending'
                        WHEN i.payment_status = 1 THEN 'paid'
                        WHEN i.payment_status = 2 THEN 'failed'
                    END AS payment_status,
                    COALESCE(COUNT(*), 0) AS number_invoices,
                    COALESCE(SUM(i.total_amount_cents::float), 0) AS amount_cents
                FROM invoices i
                WHERE i.organization_id = '__YOUR_ORGANIZATION_ID__'
                    AND i.status = 1 --- ONLY FINALIZED INVOICES
                GROUP BY payment_status, month, currency
            )

            --- Get invoice total and amount per status per month till the current month
            SELECT
                am.month,
                payment_status,
                currency,
                COALESCE(number_invoices, 0) AS number_invoices,
                COALESCE(amount_cents, 0) AS amount_cents
            FROM all_months am
            LEFT JOIN invoices_per_status ips ON ips.month = am.month AND ips.payment_status IS NOT NULL
            WHERE am.month <= DATE_TRUNC('month', CURRENT_DATE)
                AND payment_status IS NOT NULL
                ---AND currency = '' --- Filter by currency if needed
            ORDER BY am.month, payment_status, currency;
        ```
        </CodeGroup>

  </Tab>
</Tabs>
