guide/plans/overview.mdx, before:

---
title: "Overview"
description: "If Billable metrics are made to measure customer usage, Plans are made to
apply prices to this usage."
---

Note that you don't need to define a Billable metric to create a Plan. However,
if you have usage feature to charge, the price of your Billable metrics is
defined inside each Plan. Make sure to understand
[how to create a Billable metric](/guide/billable-metrics/create-billable-metrics) first.

## Plan structure[](#plan-structure "Direct link to heading")

A Plan defines the features your customers have access to, the prices paid to
access them and the invoicing cadence. In order to invoice a Customer with Lago,
you must assign a Plan to a customer.

**But first, let's define the structure of a Plan:**

<Tabs>
   <Tab title="Dashboard">
      1. [The Plan basic informations](#plan-structure)
         - A Plan `name`
         - A Plan `code`
         - A Plan `description`
      2. [The Plan model](/guide/plans/plan-model)
         - A Plan `interval`
         - A Plan base `amount` with the `currency`
         - Boolean to define if the Plan is paid **in advance** or **in arrears**
         - A Plan `trial period` in days
         - Taxes applied to this plan
      3. [The additional charges](/guide/plans/charges) for this Plan (any Billable metrics
         that have been created)
         - A Charge `model`
         - A Charge `amount` and its `currency` (automatically inherited from the
         currency of the Plan)
         - A Charge spending minimum
         - Boolean to define if the Charge is paid **in advance** or **in arrears**
         - Taxes applied to this charge (overriding the one defined on the plan)
  </Tab>
  <Tab title="API">
      <CodeGroup>
      ```bash Premium Plan Example
      LAGO_URL="https://api.getlago.com"
      API_KEY="__YOUR_API_KEY__"

      curl --location --request POST "$LAGO_URL/api/v1/plans" \
      --header "Authorization: Bearer $API_KEY" \
      --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
      --data-raw '{
         "plan": {
            "name": "Premium",
            "code": "premium",
            "interval": "monthly",
            "description": "Premium plan for SMB customers",
            "amount_cents": 50000,
            "amount_currency": "USD",
            "trial_period": 3.0,
            "pay_in_advance": true,
            "bill_charges_monthly": true,
            "tax_codes": ["french_standard_vat"],
            "charges": [
               {
               "billable_metric_id": "__BILLABLE_METRIC_ID__",
               "charge_model": "graduated",
               "pay_in_advance": false,
               "invoiceable": true,
               "min_amount_cents": 0,
               "tax_codes": ["french_standard_vat"],
               "properties": {
                  "graduated_ranges": [
                     {
                        "to_value": 10,
                        "from_value": 0,
                        "flat_amount": "0",
                        "per_unit_amount": "0.001"
                     },
                     {
                        "to_value": null,
                        "from_value": 11,
                        "flat_amount": "0",
                        "per_unit_amount": "0.0005"
                     }
                  ]
               }
            }
            ]
         }
      }'
      ```
      </CodeGroup>

  </Tab>
</Tabs>

## Editing and deleting Plans[](#editing-and-deleting-plans "Direct link to heading")

Plans can be fully edited as long as they are not linked to a customer (i.e., no active [subscriptions](/guide/subscriptions/assign-plan)). Once a plan is assigned to a customer, you are able to modify the prices of the subscription or charge fees. Other settings (such as "plan interval", “pay in advanced”, pro-rated charges …) cannot be edited once they are assigned to a customer.

To update Plans that are already linked to customers, you will need to either remove all active subscriptions or create an entirely new plan.

To update a specific charge in a Plan, it must be removed and re-added with the updated details.

Commit message:

doc(Cascade): Add edit delete plan info

guide/plans/overview.mdx, after:

---
title: "Overview"
description: "If Billable metrics are made to measure customer usage, Plans are made to
apply prices to this usage."
---

Note that you don't need to define a Billable metric to create a Plan. However,
if you have usage feature to charge, the price of your Billable metrics is
defined inside each Plan. Make sure to understand
[how to create a Billable metric](/guide/billable-metrics/create-billable-metrics) first.

## Plan structure[](#plan-structure "Direct link to heading")

A Plan defines the features your customers have access to, the prices paid to
access them and the invoicing cadence. In order to invoice a Customer with Lago,
you must assign a Plan to a customer.

**But first, let's define the structure of a Plan:**

<Tabs>
   <Tab title="Dashboard">
      1. [The Plan basic informations](#plan-structure)
         - A Plan `name`
         - A Plan `code`
         - A Plan `description`
      2. [The Plan model](/guide/plans/plan-model)
         - A Plan `interval`
         - A Plan base `amount` with the `currency`
         - Boolean to define if the Plan is paid **in advance** or **in arrears**
         - A Plan `trial period` in days
         - Taxes applied to this plan
      3. [The additional charges](/guide/plans/charges) for this Plan (any Billable metrics
         that have been created)
         - A Charge `model`
         - A Charge `amount` and its `currency` (automatically inherited from the
         currency of the Plan)
         - A Charge spending minimum
         - Boolean to define if the Charge is paid **in advance** or **in arrears**
         - Taxes applied to this charge (overriding the one defined on the plan)
  </Tab>
  <Tab title="API">
      <CodeGroup>
      ```bash Premium Plan Example
      LAGO_URL="https://api.getlago.com"
      API_KEY="__YOUR_API_KEY__"

      curl --location --request POST "$LAGO_URL/api/v1/plans" \
      --header "Authorization: Bearer $API_KEY" \
      --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
      --data-raw '{
         "plan": {
            "name": "Premium",
            "code": "premium",
            "interval": "monthly",
            "description": "Premium plan for SMB customers",
            "amount_cents": 50000,
            "amount_currency": "USD",
            "trial_period": 3.0,
            "pay_in_advance": true,
            "bill_charges_monthly": true,
            "tax_codes": ["french_standard_vat"],
            "charges": [
               {
               "billable_metric_id": "__BILLABLE_METRIC_ID__",
               "charge_model": "graduated",
               "pay_in_advance": false,
               "invoiceable": true,
               "min_amount_cents": 0,
               "tax_codes": ["french_standard_vat"],
               "properties": {
                  "graduated_ranges": [
                     {
                        "to_value": 10,
                        "from_value": 0,
                        "flat_amount": "0",
                        "per_unit_amount": "0.001"
                     },
                     {
                        "to_value": null,
                        "from_value": 11,
                        "flat_amount": "0",
                        "per_unit_amount": "0.0005"
                     }
                  ]
               }
            }
            ]
         }
      }'
      ```
      </CodeGroup>

  </Tab>
</Tabs>

## Editing Plans[](#editing-plans "Direct link to heading")

Plans can be fully edited as long as they are not linked to a customer (i.e., no active [subscriptions](/guide/subscriptions/assign-plan)). Once a plan is assigned to a customer, you can modify subscription prices, add or remove charges, and adjust them. However, other settings—such as the “plan interval,” “pay in advance” options, and pro-rated charges—become fixed and cannot be edited once assigned to a customer.

Any edits to a plan will instantly impact all subscriptions linked to it.

Please note: If this plan is linked to overridden subscriptions, you can choose to cascade or not these changes to these overridden subscriptions.

To update plans that are already linked to customers, you will need to either remove all active subscriptions or create a new plan.

To update a specific charge in a plan, the charge must first be removed, then re-added with the updated details.



## Deleting Plans[](#deleting-plans "Direct link to heading")

Plans can be deleted regardless of whether they are linked to a subscription.

Deleting a plan that is linked to a subscription will automatically terminate the subscription, and invoices will be generated.
