api-reference/resources/locales.mdx, before:

---
title: "Document locales"
---

List of accepted locales for documents (ISO 639-1).

| Code | Document language |
|--|--|
| `de` | German |
| `en` | English |
| `fr` | French |
| `it` | Italian |
| `nb` | Norwegian (Bokmål) |

## How to add a new language

You can contribute to Lago's open-source project by helping us translate documents. The new language will then be added to the list of supported locales and available to the entire Lago Community.

The document template includes translation keys for:
- Invoices related to subscriptions, add-ons and prepaid credits;
- Credit notes;
- Data formatting (e.g. amounts and dates); and
- Syntax (i.e. sentence structure).

<Info>
The names of your billable metrics, plans, add-ons, coupons and wallets are defined in the app. There are no keys to translate them.
</Info>

To add a new language:
1. [Download the document template](https://uploads-ssl.webflow.com/635119506e36baf5c267fecd/651ed8db3362f026c5aa6c98_locales-doc-template.pdf) to see where each key is located;
2. Use the text file below to provide translations for the new language; and
3. Send the new text file to [hello@getlago.com](mailto:hello@getlago.com), so that we can review it and add it to the codebase.


Thanks for your time and support!

```json
en:
  money:   
    //[AA] format: $4,500.00
    format: '%u%n'
    decimal_mark: '.'
    thousands_separator: ','
  date:
    formats: 
      //[AB] format: Dec. 01, 2022
      default: '%b. %d, %Y'
    abbr_day_names: 
      - Sun
      - Mon
      - Tue
      - Wed
      - Thu
      - Fri
      - Sat
    abbr_month_names: 
      - Jan
      - Feb
      - Mar
      - Apr
      - May
      - Jun
      - Jul
      - Aug
      - Sep
      - Oct
      - Nov
      - Dec
    day_names: 
      - Sunday
      - Monday
      - Tuesday
      - Wednesday
      - Thursday
      - Friday
      - Saturday
    month_names: 
      - January
      - February
      - March
      - April
      - May
      - June
      - July
      - August
      - September
      - October
      - November
      - December
    order:
      - :year
      - :month
      - :day


=====================================================================


en:
  invoice:
    [1.1] document_name: "Invoice"
    [1.2] invoice_number: "Invoice Number"
    [1.3] issue_date: "Issue Date"
    [1.4] payment_term: "Net payment term"
    [1.5] payment_term_days: "%{net_payment_term} days"
    [1.6] bill_from: "From"
    [1.7] bill_to: "Bill to"
    [1.8] tax_identification_number: "Tax ID: %{tax_identification_number}"
    [1.9] due_date: "Due %{date}"
    [1.10] item: "Item"
    [1.11] unit: "Unit"
    [1.12] unit_price: "Unit price"
    [1.13] tax_rate: "Tax rate"
    [1.14] amount: "Amount (excl. tax)"
    [1.15] sub_total_without_tax: "Sub total (excl. tax)"
    [1.16] tax_name: "%{name} (%{rate}% on %{amount})"
    [1.17] sub_total_with_tax: "Sub total (incl. tax)"
    [1.18] credit_notes: "Credit Notes"
    [1.19] prepaid_credits: "Prepaid credits"
    [1.20] total_due: "Total due"
    [1.21] powered_by: "Powered by"

    [AC] details: "%{resource} details"
    [2.1] date_from: "Fees from"
    [2.2] date_to: "to"
    [AD] subscription_interval: "%{plan_interval} subscription - %{subscription_name}"
    [2.3] weekly: "Weekly"
    [2.4] monthly: "Monthly"
    [2.5] quarterly: "Quarterly"
    [2.6] yearly: "Yearly"

    [2.7] total_event: "Total event"
    [2.8] true_up_metric: "%{metric} • True-up"
    [2.9] true_up_details: "Minimum spend of %{min_amount} prorated on days of usage"
    [2.10] units_prorated_per_period: "Units prorated per second per %{period}"
    [2.11] week: "week"
    [2.12] month: "month"
    [2.13] quarter: "quarter"
    [2.14] year: "year"
    [2.15] total: "Total"

    [3.1] breakdown: "Breakdown"
    [3.2] breakdown_of: "Breakdown of %{fee_group_name}"
    [3.3] breakdown_for_days: "Used %{breakdown_duration} out of %{breakdown_total_duration} days"
    [3.4] notice_prorated: "Regardless of when an event is received, the unit is not prorated, we charge the full price."
    [3.5] notice_full: "If a unit is added or removed during the monthly plan, we calculate the prorated price based on the ratio of days remaining or used to the total number of days in the plan. For instance, if 15 days are left in the plan, we multiply the price by 15/31, and if a unit was used for 10 days, we multiply the price by 10/31."

    [4.1] prepaid_credits_with_value: "Prepaid credits - %{wallet_name}"
    

=====================================================================


en:
  credit_note:
    [5.1] document_name: "Credit note"
    [5.2] credit_note_number: "Credit note number"
    [5.3] invoice_number: "Invoice number"
    [5.4] issue_date: "Issue date"
    [5.5] credit_from: "From"
    [5.6] credit_to: "Credit to"
    [5.7] tax_identification_number: "ID fiscal: %{tax_identification_number}"
    [5.8] refunded_notice: "Refunded on %{issuing_date}"
    [5.9] credited_notice: "Credited on customer balance on %{issuing_date}"
    [5.10] credited_refunded_notice: "Credited on customer balance and refunded on %{issuing_date}"
    [5.11] item: "Item"
    [5.12] tax_rate: "Tax rate"
    [5.13] amount: "Amount (excl. tax)"
    [5.14] subscription: "Subscription"
    [5.15] true_up_metric: "%{metric} • True-up"
    [5.16] coupon_adjustment: "Coupons"
    [5.17] sub_total_without_tax: "Sub total (excl. tax)"
    [5.18] tax: "%{name} (%{rate}% on %{amount})"
    [5.19] credited_on_customer_balance: "Credited on customer balance"
    [5.20] refunded: "Refunded"
    [5.21] total: "Total"
    [5.22] powered_by: "Powered by"


=====================================================================


en:
  email:
    invoice:
      finalized:
        [6.1] subject: "Your invoice from {organization.name} #%{invoice_number}"
        [6.2] invoice_from: "Invoice from %{organization_name}"
        [6.3] due_date: "Due %{date}"
        [6.4] invoice_number: "Invoice number"
        [6.5] issue_date: "Issue date"
        [6.6] download: "Download invoice for details"
    credit_note:
      created:
        [6.7] subject: "Your credit note from %{organization.name} #%{credit_note_number}"
        [6.8] credit_note_from: "Credit note from %{organization.name}"
        [6.9] refunded_notice: "Refunded on %{date}"
        [6.10] credited_notice: "Credited on customer balance on %{date}"
        [6.11] credited_refunded_notice: "Credited on customer balance and refunded on %{date}"
        [6.12] credit_note_number: "Credit note number"
        [6.13] invoice_number: "Invoice number"
        [6.14] issue_date: "Issue date"
        [6.15] download: "Download invoice for details"
    [6.98] questions: "Questions? Contact us at"
    [6.99] powered_by_lago: "Powered by"


=====================================================================


en:
  customer_portal:
    [7.1] powered_by: "Powered by"
    [7.2] customer_information: "Customer information"
    [7.3] name: "Name"
    [7.4] name_not_provided: "Name not provided"
    [7.5] legal_name: "Legal name"
    [7.6] legal_name_not_provided: "Legal name not provided"
    [7.7] legal_number: "Legal number"
    [7.8] legal_number_not_provided: "Legal number not provided"
    [7.9] payment_provider: "Payment provider"
    [7.10] payment_provider_not_provided: "Payment provider not provided"
    [7.11] email: "Email"
    [7.12] email_not_provided: "Email not provided"
    [7.13] address: "Address"
    [7.14] address_not_provided: "Address not provided"
    [7.15] invoice_history: "Invoice history"
    [7.16] invoices_search: "Search invoices"
    [7.17] issuing_date: "Issuing date"
    [7.18] invoice_number: "Invoice number"
    [7.19] amount: "Amount"
    [7.20] payment: "Payment "
    [7.21] download: "Download PDF"
    [7.22] unpaid: "Unpaid"
    [7.23] paid: "Paid"
    [7.24] invoices_empty_state: "There are currently no invoices attached to this customer. Please check back later, or contact us if you notice any issues."
    [7.25] expired_customer_portal_header: "For security reasons, this page has expired"
    [7.26] error_customer_portal_header: "Something went wrong token is invalid or has expired"
```

Commit message:

doc(Locales): add old versions tranlsation in payaload

api-reference/resources/locales.mdx, after:

---
title: "Document locales"
---

List of accepted locales for documents (ISO 639-1).

| Code | Document language |
|--|--|
| `de` | German |
| `en` | English |
| `fr` | French |
| `it` | Italian |
| `nb` | Norwegian (Bokmål) |

## How to add a new language

You can contribute to Lago's open-source project by helping us translate documents. The new language will then be added to the list of supported locales and available to the entire Lago Community.

The document template includes translation keys for:
- Invoices related to subscriptions, add-ons and prepaid credits;
- Credit notes;
- Data formatting (e.g. amounts and dates); and
- Syntax (i.e. sentence structure).

<Info>
The names of your billable metrics, plans, add-ons, coupons and wallets are defined in the app. There are no keys to translate them.
</Info>

To add a new language:
1. [Download the document template](https://uploads-ssl.webflow.com/635119506e36baf5c267fecd/651ed8db3362f026c5aa6c98_locales-doc-template.pdf) to see where each key is located;
2. Use the text file below to provide translations for the new language; and
3. Send the new text file to [hello@getlago.com](mailto:hello@getlago.com), so that we can review it and add it to the codebase.


Thanks for your time and support!

```json
en:
  money:   
    //[AA] format: $4,500.00
    format: '%u%n'
    decimal_mark: '.'
    thousands_separator: ','
  date:
    formats: 
      //[AB] format: Dec. 01, 2022
      default: '%b. %d, %Y'
    abbr_day_names: 
      - Sun
      - Mon
      - Tue
      - Wed
      - Thu
      - Fri
      - Sat
    abbr_month_names: 
      - Jan
      - Feb
      - Mar
      - Apr
      - May
      - Jun
      - Jul
      - Aug
      - Sep
      - Oct
      - Nov
      - Dec
    day_names: 
      - Sunday
      - Monday
      - Tuesday
      - Wednesday
      - Thursday
      - Friday
      - Saturday
    month_names: 
      - January
      - February
      - March
      - April
      - May
      - June
      - July
      - August
      - September
      - October
      - November
      - December
    order:
      - :year
      - :month
      - :day


=====================================================================


en:
  invoice:
    [1.1] document_name: "Invoice"
    [1.2] invoice_number: "Invoice Number"
    [1.3] issue_date: "Issue Date"
    [1.4] payment_term: "Net payment term"
    [1.5] payment_term_days: "%{net_payment_term} days"
    [1.6] bill_from: "From"
    [1.7] bill_to: "Bill to"
    [1.8] tax_identification_number: "Tax ID: %{tax_identification_number}"
    [1.9] due_date: "Due %{date}"
    [1.10] item: "Item"
    [1.11] unit: "Unit"
    [1.12] unit_price: "Unit price"
    [1.13] tax_rate: "Tax rate"
    [1.14] amount: "Amount (excl. tax)"
    [1.15] sub_total_without_tax: "Sub total (excl. tax)"
    [1.16] tax_name: "%{name} (%{rate}% on %{amount})"
    [1.17] sub_total_with_tax: "Sub total (incl. tax)"
    [1.18] credit_notes: "Credit Notes"
    [1.19] prepaid_credits: "Prepaid credits"
    [1.20] total_due: "Total due"
    [1.21] powered_by: "Powered by"

    [AC] details: "%{resource} details"
    [2.1] date_from: "Fees from"
    [2.2] date_to: "to"
    [AD] subscription_interval: "%{plan_interval} subscription - %{subscription_name}"
    [2.3] weekly: "Weekly"
    [2.4] monthly: "Monthly"
    [2.5] quarterly: "Quarterly"
    [2.6] yearly: "Yearly"

    [2.7] total_event: "Total event"
    [2.8] true_up_metric: "%{metric} • True-up"
    [2.9] true_up_details: "Minimum spend of %{min_amount} prorated on days of usage"
    [2.10] units_prorated_per_period: "Units prorated per second per %{period}"
    [2.11] week: "week"
    [2.12] month: "month"
    [2.13] quarter: "quarter"
    [2.14] year: "year"
    [2.15] total: "Total"

    [3.1] breakdown: "Breakdown"
    [3.2] breakdown_of: "Breakdown of %{fee_group_name}"
    [3.3] breakdown_for_days: "Used %{breakdown_duration} out of %{breakdown_total_duration} days"
    [3.4] notice_prorated: "Regardless of when an event is received, the unit is not prorated, we charge the full price."
    [3.5] notice_full: "If a unit is added or removed during the monthly plan, we calculate the prorated price based on the ratio of days remaining or used to the total number of days in the plan. For instance, if 15 days are left in the plan, we multiply the price by 15/31, and if a unit was used for 10 days, we multiply the price by 10/31."

    [4.1] prepaid_credits_with_value: "Prepaid credits - %{wallet_name}"

    //For invoices with old versions
    total_credits_with_value: "Total credits amount: %{credit_amount} credits"
    all_subscriptions: "All subscriptions"
    all_usage_based_fees: "All consumption fees"
    tax: "Taxes"
    fees_from_to_date: "Consumption fees from %{from_date} to %{to_date}"
    tax_name_with_details: "%{name} (%{rate}%)"
    subscription: "Subscription"
    sub_total: "Subtotal"
    usage_based_fees: "Consumption fees"
    list_of_charges: "List of consumption fees from %{from} to %{to}"
    see_breakdown: "See breakdown below"
    total_unit_interval: "Total number of units: %{events_count} event(s) for %{units}"
    total_unit: "Total number of units: %{units}"
    

=====================================================================


en:
  credit_note:
    [5.1] document_name: "Credit note"
    [5.2] credit_note_number: "Credit note number"
    [5.3] invoice_number: "Invoice number"
    [5.4] issue_date: "Issue date"
    [5.5] credit_from: "From"
    [5.6] credit_to: "Credit to"
    [5.7] tax_identification_number: "ID fiscal: %{tax_identification_number}"
    [5.8] refunded_notice: "Refunded on %{issuing_date}"
    [5.9] credited_notice: "Credited on customer balance on %{issuing_date}"
    [5.10] credited_refunded_notice: "Credited on customer balance and refunded on %{issuing_date}"
    [5.11] item: "Item"
    [5.12] tax_rate: "Tax rate"
    [5.13] amount: "Amount (excl. tax)"
    [5.14] subscription: "Subscription"
    [5.15] true_up_metric: "%{metric} • True-up"
    [5.16] coupon_adjustment: "Coupons"
    [5.17] sub_total_without_tax: "Sub total (excl. tax)"
    [5.18] tax: "%{name} (%{rate}% on %{amount})"
    [5.19] credited_on_customer_balance: "Credited on customer balance"
    [5.20] refunded: "Refunded"
    [5.21] total: "Total"
    [5.22] powered_by: "Powered by"


=====================================================================


en:
  email:
    invoice:
      finalized:
        [6.1] subject: "Your invoice from {organization.name} #%{invoice_number}"
        [6.2] invoice_from: "Invoice from %{organization_name}"
        [6.3] due_date: "Due %{date}"
        [6.4] invoice_number: "Invoice number"
        [6.5] issue_date: "Issue date"
        [6.6] download: "Download invoice for details"
    credit_note:
      created:
        [6.7] subject: "Your credit note from %{organization.name} #%{credit_note_number}"
        [6.8] credit_note_from: "Credit note from %{organization.name}"
        [6.9] refunded_notice: "Refunded on %{date}"
        [6.10] credited_notice: "Credited on customer balance on %{date}"
        [6.11] credited_refunded_notice: "Credited on customer balance and refunded on %{date}"
        [6.12] credit_note_number: "Credit note number"
        [6.13] invoice_number: "Invoice number"
        [6.14] issue_date: "Issue date"
        [6.15] download: "Download invoice for details"
    [6.98] questions: "Questions? Contact us at"
    [6.99] powered_by_lago: "Powered by"


=====================================================================


en:
  customer_portal:
    [7.1] powered_by: "Powered by"
    [7.2] customer_information: "Customer information"
    [7.3] name: "Name"
    [7.4] name_not_provided: "Name not provided"
    [7.5] legal_name: "Legal name"
    [7.6] legal_name_not_provided: "Legal name not provided"
    [7.7] legal_number: "Legal number"
    [7.8] legal_number_not_provided: "Legal number not provided"
    [7.9] payment_provider: "Payment provider"
    [7.10] payment_provider_not_provided: "Payment provider not provided"
    [7.11] email: "Email"
    [7.12] email_not_provided: "Email not provided"
    [7.13] address: "Address"
    [7.14] address_not_provided: "Address not provided"
    [7.15] invoice_history: "Invoice history"
    [7.16] invoices_search: "Search invoices"
    [7.17] issuing_date: "Issuing date"
    [7.18] invoice_number: "Invoice number"
    [7.19] amount: "Amount"
    [7.20] payment: "Payment "
    [7.21] download: "Download PDF"
    [7.22] unpaid: "Unpaid"
    [7.23] paid: "Paid"
    [7.24] invoices_empty_state: "There are currently no invoices attached to this customer. Please check back later, or contact us if you notice any issues."
    [7.25] expired_customer_portal_header: "For security reasons, this page has expired"
    [7.26] error_customer_portal_header: "Something went wrong token is invalid or has expired"
```
