guide/invoicing/net-payment-term.mdx, before:

---
title: "Net payment term"
---

A net payment term refers to the specified number of days within which the end customer is required to settle the invoice after its finalization. 
This term not only affects the `payment_due_date` within the invoice payload but also influences the due date mentioned in the downloadable PDF version of the invoice.

To illustrate, consider the following scenario: 
a billing cycle spanning one month, accompanied by a net payment term of 15 days.

<Frame caption="Illustration of the net payment term period">
  <img src="/guide/invoicing/images/net-payment-term-timeline.png" />
</Frame>

## Application scope[](#application-scope "Direct link to heading")

The net payment term period applies to all types of invoices. 
It does not trigger any webhook when the `payment_due_date` becomes overdue.

## Define a net payment term at organization level[](#define-a-net-payment-term-at-organization-level "Direct link to heading")

The organization's net payment term applies to all customers by default.

<Tabs>
  <Tab title="Dashboard">
      To define a net payment term at the organization level via the user interface, follow these steps:

      1. Access the **"Settings"** section using the side menu;
      2. Navigate to the **"Invoice"** tab;
      3. Click **"Edit"** in the **"Net payment term"** section;
      4. Select the desired number of days for the payment term or opt for a custom duration; and
      5. Confirm by clicking **"Edit net payment term"**.
  </Tab>
  <Tab title="API">
    You can also modify the organization’s net payment term at any time through [the API](/api-reference/organizations/update).
    Define a net payment term in days by using the `net_payment_term` argument within the `organization` object.
      <CodeGroup>
      ```bash Add a net payment term on the organization
      LAGO_URL="https://api.getlago.com"
      API_KEY="__YOUR_API_KEY__"

      curl --location --request PUT "$LAGO_URL/api/v1/organizations" \
      --header "Authorization: Bearer $API_KEY" \
      --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
      --data-raw '{
        "organization": {
			    "net_payment_term": 15
        }
      }'
      ```
      </CodeGroup>
  </Tab>
</Tabs>

## Define a net payment term at customer level[](#define-a-net-payment-term-at-customer-level "Direct link to heading")

<Tabs>
  <Tab title="Dashboard">
    To define a net payment term at the customer level through the user interface, follow these steps:
      1. Access the **"Customers"** section via the side menu;
      2. Select a customer from the list;
      3. Open the **"Settings"** tab of the customer view;
      4. Click **"Add a net payment term"** in the **"Net payment term"** section;
      5. Choose the desired number of days for the payment term or opt for a custom duration; and
      6. Click **"Add net payment term"** to confirm.
  </Tab>
  <Tab title="API">
    You can also modify the customer's net payment term at any time through [the API](/api-reference/customers/update).
    Define a net payment term in days by using the `net_payment_term argument` within the `customer` object.
      <CodeGroup>
      ```bash Add a net payment term on a customer
      LAGO_URL="https://api.getlago.com"
      API_KEY="__YOUR_API_KEY__"

      curl --location --request PUT "$LAGO_URL/api/v1/customers" \
      --header "Authorization: Bearer $API_KEY" \
      --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
      --data-raw '{
        "customer": {
			    "external_id": "5eb02857-a71e-4ea2-bcf9-57d3a41bc6ba",
			    "net_payment_term": 15
        }
      }'
      ```
      </CodeGroup>
  </Tab>
</Tabs>

The customer's net payment term supersedes the one defined at the organization level. 
It exclusively applies to the associated customer.

Commit message:

add doc guide for overdue balance

guide/invoicing/net-payment-term.mdx, after:

---
title: "Net payment term"
---

A net payment term refers to the specified number of days within which the end customer is required to settle the invoice after its finalization. 
This term not only affects the `payment_due_date` within the invoice payload but also influences the due date mentioned in the downloadable PDF version of the invoice.

To illustrate, consider the following scenario: 
a billing cycle spanning one month, accompanied by a net payment term of 15 days.

<Frame caption="Illustration of the net payment term period">
  <img src="/guide/invoicing/images/net-payment-term-timeline.png" />
</Frame>

## Application scope[](#application-scope "Direct link to heading")

The net payment term period applies to all types of invoices. 
It does not trigger any webhook when the `payment_due_date` becomes overdue.

The net payment term period applies to all types of invoices and is used to compute the due date. When the `payment_due_date` has passsed, the invoice is flagged as `Overdue`. This action sets the `payment_overdue` field to true, until the payment is `succeeded`, `payment_dispute_lost_at` is applied, or the invoice is voided.

## Define a net payment term at organization level[](#define-a-net-payment-term-at-organization-level "Direct link to heading")

The organization's net payment term applies to all customers by default.

<Tabs>
  <Tab title="Dashboard">
      To define a net payment term at the organization level via the user interface, follow these steps:

      1. Access the **"Settings"** section using the side menu;
      2. Navigate to the **"Invoice"** tab;
      3. Click **"Edit"** in the **"Net payment term"** section;
      4. Select the desired number of days for the payment term or opt for a custom duration; and
      5. Confirm by clicking **"Edit net payment term"**.
  </Tab>
  <Tab title="API">
    You can also modify the organization’s net payment term at any time through [the API](/api-reference/organizations/update).
    Define a net payment term in days by using the `net_payment_term` argument within the `organization` object.
      <CodeGroup>
      ```bash Add a net payment term on the organization
      LAGO_URL="https://api.getlago.com"
      API_KEY="__YOUR_API_KEY__"

      curl --location --request PUT "$LAGO_URL/api/v1/organizations" \
      --header "Authorization: Bearer $API_KEY" \
      --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
      --data-raw '{
        "organization": {
			    "net_payment_term": 15
        }
      }'
      ```
      </CodeGroup>
  </Tab>
</Tabs>

## Define a net payment term at customer level[](#define-a-net-payment-term-at-customer-level "Direct link to heading")

<Tabs>
  <Tab title="Dashboard">
    To define a net payment term at the customer level through the user interface, follow these steps:
      1. Access the **"Customers"** section via the side menu;
      2. Select a customer from the list;
      3. Open the **"Settings"** tab of the customer view;
      4. Click **"Add a net payment term"** in the **"Net payment term"** section;
      5. Choose the desired number of days for the payment term or opt for a custom duration; and
      6. Click **"Add net payment term"** to confirm.
  </Tab>
  <Tab title="API">
    You can also modify the customer's net payment term at any time through [the API](/api-reference/customers/update).
    Define a net payment term in days by using the `net_payment_term argument` within the `customer` object.
      <CodeGroup>
      ```bash Add a net payment term on a customer
      LAGO_URL="https://api.getlago.com"
      API_KEY="__YOUR_API_KEY__"

      curl --location --request PUT "$LAGO_URL/api/v1/customers" \
      --header "Authorization: Bearer $API_KEY" \
      --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
      --data-raw '{
        "customer": {
			    "external_id": "5eb02857-a71e-4ea2-bcf9-57d3a41bc6ba",
			    "net_payment_term": 15
        }
      }'
      ```
      </CodeGroup>
  </Tab>
</Tabs>

The customer's net payment term supersedes the one defined at the organization level. 
It exclusively applies to the associated customer.
