integrations/accounting/netsuite.mdx, before:

---
title: "NetSuite"
description:
  "Lago seamlessly integrates with NetSuite, enabling real-time synchronization of billing data with your preferred accounting tool."
---

<Info>
**PREMIUM ADD-ON** ✨

This integration is available upon request only. Please **[contact us](mailto:hello@getlago.com)** to get access to this premium integration.
</Info>

## RESTlet script configuration
Lago's native integration with NetSuite utilizes a [custom RESTlet script](https://docs.oracle.com/en/cloud/saas/netsuite/ns-online-help/section_4618456517.html) to provide maximum flexibility in fetching or pushing billing data. To set up the Lago RESTlet script in your NetSuite instance, follow these steps:

- **Install `ramda.min.js`**: this library is mandatory for using Lago's script. Ensure it is installed in your NetSuite instance;
- Create a new script in NetSuite: navigate to **Customization > Scripting > Scripts > Create a New Script**;
- **Paste the script provided by your Lago Account Manager** into the new script; and
- **Deploy the Script**: after creating the script, deploy it within NetSuite.

By deploying this script, you'll generate a custom endpoint that is crucial for the authentication process and enables seamless data synchronization between Lago and NetSuite.

## Connecting Lago to NetSuite
To fully integrate Lago with NetSuite, start by connecting your Lago instance to a new NetSuite connection. 
You can have an unlimited number of NetSuite connections. First, link your NetSuite account to Lago. 
Once connected, activate the specific syncs and actions required for your use case. 
This ensures that your Lago instance is properly configured to communicate with NetSuite, enabling seamless data synchronization and management.

### Create an oAuth app in NetSuite
After logging into your NetSuite account, navigate to **Setup > Integration > Manage Integrations > New**. 
Enter the required integration details and follow these steps:

- Under Authentication, select **Token-based Authentication**;
- Enable the scopes for `RESTlets` and `REST Web Services`; and
- Save you new oAuth integration.

The Client Credentials will be displayed. Copy the Consumer Key/Client ID and Consumer Secret/Client Secret and save them in a secure document for future reference, as this information will not be accessible once you leave the screen.

### Authentication flow
The authentication process connects Lago and NetSuite through OAuth2. 
To establish this connection, you need to provide the following mandatory fields:

- **Connection Name:** an internal name for the connection within Lago;
- **Unique Connection Code:** an internal code for the connection within Lago;
- **NetSuite Account ID:** your NetSuite [account identifier](https://docs.oracle.com/en/cloud/saas/netsuite/ns-online-help/section_1498754928.html#:~:text=You%20can%20find%20your%20NetSuite,an%20underscore%2C%20for%20example%20123456_RP.);
- **NetSuite Client ID:** the [client ID](/integrations/accounting/netsuite#create-an-oauth-integration-in-netsuite) from your NetSuite account;
- **NetSuite Client Secret:** the [client secret](/integrations/accounting/netsuite#create-an-oauth-integration-in-netsuite) from your NetSuite account;
- **Custom RESTlet Endpoint:** The endpoint created from the [custom RESTlet script](/integrations/accounting/netsuite#restlet-script-configuration).

### Enable actions and syncs
Here is a list of syncs and actions that Lago uses with NetSuite. Some are mandatory, while others are optional:

- `Accounts`: Fetch account data from NetSuite *(mandatory)*;
- `Customers`: Syncs or fetch customer data from NetSuite *(mandatory)*;
- `Items` and `Tax Items`: Fetch item and tax item data from NetSuite *(mandatory)*;
- `Invoices`: Syncs invoice data to NetSuite *(mandatory)*;
- `Sales Orders`: Syncs sales order data to NetSuite *(optional)*;
- `Credit Notes`: Syncs credit note data to NetSuite *(optional)*; and
- `Payments`: Syncs payment data to NetSuite *(optional)*.

<Frame caption="Connect Lago to NetSuite">
  <img src="integrations/images/connect-netsuite-to-lago.png" />
</Frame>

## Mapping items between Lago and NetSuite
To sync invoices, credit notes, sales orders, and payments to NetSuite, Lago establishes a one-to-one relationship between Lago objects and NetSuite objects. 
Follow these steps to map an item:
- **Access a NetSuite Connection in Lago:** navigate to your connected NetSuite integration within the Lago platform;
- **Select the Item to map:** click on the specific item in Lago that you wish to map to a corresponding NetSuite item;
- **Fetch Items from NetSuite:** Lago will automatically retrieve the relevant items from your NetSuite instance;
- **Map the Item:** choose the appropriate NetSuite item from the list provided by Lago; and
- **Click 'Save'** to finalize the mapping.

### Mapping a fallback item (mandatory)
The fallback item is a dummy item used as a backup in case the mapping of other objects fails. 
To ensure continuous data synchronization between Lago and NetSuite, this fallback item will be used whenever there is a mapping issue.

<Info>
This mapping follows a one-to-many structure, meaning that a single fallback item can be used to handle multiple mapping issues.
</Info>

<Frame caption="Map a fallback item between Lago and NetSuite">
  <img src="integrations/images/netsuite-fallback-item.png" />
</Frame>

### Mapping a tax item (mandatory)
To override the tax amount for an invoice, sales order, or credit note, you need to map a single tax item from NetSuite. 
This mapped item will be used to assign the correct tax amount.

<Info>
This mapping follows a one-to-many structure, meaning that a single tax item can be mapped to override all tax amounts issued by Lago.
</Info>

<Frame caption="Map a tax item between Lago and NetSuite">
  <img src="integrations/images/mapping-tax-item-netsuite.png" />
</Frame>

### Mapping default objects
Coupons, credit notes, subscription fees, minimum commitments, and prepaid credits require a one-to-many mapping. 
Each of these objects must be mapped to a single default item from your NetSuite instance. Lago will use this mapped item 
whenever any of these objects appear on the final invoice sent to NetSuite.

<Info>
This mapping follows a one-to-many structure, meaning a single item can handle multiple mappings for coupons, credit notes, subscription fees, minimum commitments, and prepaid credits.
</Info>

<Frame caption="Map default items between Lago and NetSuite">
  <img src="integrations/images/mapping-default-items-netsuite.png" />
</Frame>


### Mapping custom objects
Billable metrics and add-ons require a one-to-one mapping. Each billable metric, used for usage-based billing, must represent a specific SKU in your NetSuite instance. 
You need to map each of these individually. Lago will use the mapped items whenever any of these metrics or add-ons appear on the final invoice sent to NetSuite.

<Info>
This mapping follows a one-to-one structure, meaning each billable metric or add-on must be mapped to a specific NetSuite item.
</Info>

<Frame caption="Map custom items between Lago and NetSuite">
  <img src="integrations/images/mapping-custom-items-netsuite.png" />
</Frame>


## Customers synchronization
When creating or updating a Lago customer, you can choose to link it to a NetSuite customer.

The first option is to **automatically create a new customer from Lago to NetSuite**. Follow these steps:
1. Create or update a new Lago customer;
2. Select the targeted NetSuite connection;
3. Check the box labeled 'Create this customer automatically in NetSuite';
4. Choose a NetSuite subsidiary from the list (Lago will fetch the list of subsidiaries from your NetSuite instance); and
5. Save and create this new customer.

If the customer is successfully created in NetSuite, a new field will be displayed in the Lago customer view, providing a direct link to the corresponding NetSuite customer.

<Info>
Customer creation from Lago to NetSuite happens in real-time with only a few seconds of delay.
</Info>


<Frame caption="Lago customer integrated with NetSuite">
  <img src="integrations/images/sync-customers-netsuite.png" />
</Frame>

The second option is to **import an existing NetSuite customer to a Lago customer**. Follow these steps:
1. Create or update a Lago customer;
2. Select the targeted NetSuite connection;
3. Ensure the box labeled 'Create this customer automatically in NetSuite' is unchecked;
4. Paste the NetSuite customer ID in the appropriate field; and
5. Save and create this new customer.

**Here is the list of fields that is currently synced to NetSuite:**
| Lago | NetSuite |
| --- | --- |
| customer | type |
| customer.name | companyname |
| customer.netsuite_subsidiary | subsidiary |
| customer.id | custbody_lago_id |
| customer.email | email |
| customer.phone | phone |
| customer.external_salesforce_id | custentity_lago_sf_id |


## Invoices synchronization
If a Lago customer is linked to a NetSuite customer, Lago syncs invoices to NetSuite Invoices in real-time.

It's important to note the following:
- Each fee issued by Lago is synced as a line item on a NetSuite invoice;
- The Lago fee `units` are synced to NetSuite as `quantity`;
- The Lago fee `precise_unit_amount` is synced to NetSuite as `rate`;
- Lago overrides the total tax amount of a NetSuite invoice using the tax item, as NetSuite does not support tax details at the line item level; and
- Any discounts on an invoice (coupon, credit note, or prepaid credits) are synced as negative line items on the NetSuite invoice.

If the invoice is successfully created in NetSuite, a new field will be displayed in the Lago invoice view, providing a direct link to the corresponding NetSuite invoice.

<Info>
Invoice creation from Lago to NetSuite happens in real-time with only a few seconds of delay.
</Info>

<Frame caption="Sync Lago invoices to NetSuite">
  <img src="integrations/images/sync-invoices-netsuite.png" />
</Frame>

**Here is the list of fields that is currently synced to NetSuite:**
| Lago | NetSuite |
| --- | --- |
| invoice | type |
| invoice.lago_id | tranid |
| customer.netsuite_internal_id | entity |
| true | istaxable |
| taxitem.id | taxitem |
| invoice.taxes_amount_cents | taxamountoverride |
| invoice.number | otherrefnum |
| invoice.lago_id | custbody_lago_id |
| invoice.fee.id | lineItems.item |
| invoice.fee.account_code | lineItems.account |
| invoice.fee.units | lineItems.quantity |
| invoice.fee.precise_unit_amount | lineItems.rate |

## Sales Orders synchronization
If a Lago customer is linked to a NetSuite customer and the Sales Orders action is enabled in your Lago-NetSuite connection, Lago syncs invoices to NetSuite Sales Orders in real-time.

Note that the same fields used to sync invoices are also used to sync sales orders.

**Here is the list of fields that is currently synced to NetSuite:**
| Lago | NetSuite |
| --- | --- |
| salesorder | type |
| invoice.lago_id | tranid |
| customer.netsuite_internal_id | entity |
| true | istaxable |
| taxitem.id | taxitem |
| invoice.taxes_amount_cents | taxamountoverride |
| invoice.number | otherrefnum |
| invoice.lago_id | custbody_lago_id |
| invoice.fee.id | lineItems.item |
| invoice.fee.account_code | lineItems.account |
| invoice.fee.units | lineItems.quantity |
| invoice.fee.precise_unit_amount | lineItems.rate |

## Credit Notes synchronization
If a Lago customer is linked to a NetSuite customer, Lago syncs credit notes to NetSuite Credit Memos in real-time.

It's important to note the following:
- Each fee refunded by Lago is synced as a line item on a NetSuite Credit Memo;
- Lago overrides the total tax amount of a NetSuite credit memo using the tax item, as NetSuite does not support tax details at the line item level; and
- Any discounts on an credit note (like coupon, for instance) are synced as line items on the NetSuite Credit Memo.

If the credit note is successfully created in NetSuite, a new field will be displayed in the Lago credit note view, providing a direct link to the corresponding NetSuite Credit Memo.

<Info>
Credit note creation from Lago to NetSuite happens in real-time with only a few seconds of delay.
</Info>

**Here is the list of fields that is currently synced to NetSuite:**
| Lago | NetSuite |
| --- | --- |
| creditmemo | type |
| invoice.lago_id | tranid |
| customer.netsuite_internal_id | entity |
| true | istaxable |
| taxitem.id | taxitem |
| invoice.taxes_amount_cents | taxamountoverride |
| invoice.number | otherrefnum |
| invoice.lago_id | custbody_lago_id |
| invoice.fee.id | lineItems.item |
| invoice.fee.account_code | lineItems.account |
| invoice.fee.units | lineItems.quantity |
| invoice.fee.precise_unit_amount | lineItems.rate |

## Payments synchronization
If a Lago invoice is tied to a NetSuite invoice, Lago automatically syncs payments occurring in Lago to NetSuite, updating in-real time the payment status of the invoice in NetSuite.

| Lago | NetSuite |
| --- | --- |
| customerpayment | type |
| customer.netsuite_internal_id | customer |
| invoice.netsuite_internal_id | lineItems.doc |
| true | lineItems.apply |
| invoice.total_amount_cents | lineItems.amount |

Commit message:

add nango unified api redirect url

integrations/accounting/netsuite.mdx, after:

---
title: "NetSuite"
description:
  "Lago seamlessly integrates with NetSuite, enabling real-time synchronization of billing data with your preferred accounting tool."
---

<Info>
**PREMIUM ADD-ON** ✨

This integration is available upon request only. Please **[contact us](mailto:hello@getlago.com)** to get access to this premium integration.
</Info>

## RESTlet script configuration
Lago's native integration with NetSuite utilizes a [custom RESTlet script](https://docs.oracle.com/en/cloud/saas/netsuite/ns-online-help/section_4618456517.html) to provide maximum flexibility in fetching or pushing billing data. To set up the Lago RESTlet script in your NetSuite instance, follow these steps:

- **Install `ramda.min.js`**: this library is mandatory for using Lago's script. Ensure it is installed in your NetSuite instance;
- Create a new script in NetSuite: navigate to **Customization > Scripting > Scripts > Create a New Script**;
- **Paste the script provided by your Lago Account Manager** into the new script; and
- **Deploy the Script**: after creating the script, deploy it within NetSuite.

By deploying this script, you'll generate a custom endpoint that is crucial for the authentication process and enables seamless data synchronization between Lago and NetSuite.

## Connecting Lago to NetSuite
To fully integrate Lago with NetSuite, start by connecting your Lago instance to a new NetSuite connection. 
You can have an unlimited number of NetSuite connections. First, link your NetSuite account to Lago. 
Once connected, activate the specific syncs and actions required for your use case. 
This ensures that your Lago instance is properly configured to communicate with NetSuite, enabling seamless data synchronization and management.

### Create an oAuth app in NetSuite
After logging into your NetSuite account, navigate to **Setup > Integration > Manage Integrations > New**. 
Enter the required integration details and follow these steps:

- Under Authentication, select **Token-based Authentication**;
- Enable the scopes for `RESTlets` and `REST Web Services`;
- Define `https://api.nango.dev/oauth/callback` as a callback url for this integration (Nango is the unified API used to sync data from Lago to NetSuite); and
- Save you new oAuth integration.

The Client Credentials will be displayed. Copy the Consumer Key/Client ID and Consumer Secret/Client Secret and save them in a secure document for future reference, as this information will not be accessible once you leave the screen.

### Authentication flow
The authentication process connects Lago and NetSuite through OAuth2. 
To establish this connection, you need to provide the following mandatory fields:

- **Connection Name:** an internal name for the connection within Lago;
- **Unique Connection Code:** an internal code for the connection within Lago;
- **NetSuite Account ID:** your NetSuite [account identifier](https://docs.oracle.com/en/cloud/saas/netsuite/ns-online-help/section_1498754928.html#:~:text=You%20can%20find%20your%20NetSuite,an%20underscore%2C%20for%20example%20123456_RP.);
- **NetSuite Client ID:** the [client ID](/integrations/accounting/netsuite#create-an-oauth-integration-in-netsuite) from your NetSuite account;
- **NetSuite Client Secret:** the [client secret](/integrations/accounting/netsuite#create-an-oauth-integration-in-netsuite) from your NetSuite account;
- **Custom RESTlet Endpoint:** The endpoint created from the [custom RESTlet script](/integrations/accounting/netsuite#restlet-script-configuration).

### Enable actions and syncs
Here is a list of syncs and actions that Lago uses with NetSuite. Some are mandatory, while others are optional:

- `Accounts`: Fetch account data from NetSuite *(mandatory)*;
- `Customers`: Syncs or fetch customer data from NetSuite *(mandatory)*;
- `Items` and `Tax Items`: Fetch item and tax item data from NetSuite *(mandatory)*;
- `Invoices`: Syncs invoice data to NetSuite *(mandatory)*;
- `Sales Orders`: Syncs sales order data to NetSuite *(optional)*;
- `Credit Notes`: Syncs credit note data to NetSuite *(optional)*; and
- `Payments`: Syncs payment data to NetSuite *(optional)*.

<Frame caption="Connect Lago to NetSuite">
  <img src="integrations/images/connect-netsuite-to-lago.png" />
</Frame>

## Mapping items between Lago and NetSuite
To sync invoices, credit notes, sales orders, and payments to NetSuite, Lago establishes a one-to-one relationship between Lago objects and NetSuite objects. 
Follow these steps to map an item:
- **Access a NetSuite Connection in Lago:** navigate to your connected NetSuite integration within the Lago platform;
- **Select the Item to map:** click on the specific item in Lago that you wish to map to a corresponding NetSuite item;
- **Fetch Items from NetSuite:** Lago will automatically retrieve the relevant items from your NetSuite instance;
- **Map the Item:** choose the appropriate NetSuite item from the list provided by Lago; and
- **Click 'Save'** to finalize the mapping.

### Mapping a fallback item (mandatory)
The fallback item is a dummy item used as a backup in case the mapping of other objects fails. 
To ensure continuous data synchronization between Lago and NetSuite, this fallback item will be used whenever there is a mapping issue.

<Info>
This mapping follows a one-to-many structure, meaning that a single fallback item can be used to handle multiple mapping issues.
</Info>

<Frame caption="Map a fallback item between Lago and NetSuite">
  <img src="integrations/images/netsuite-fallback-item.png" />
</Frame>

### Mapping a tax item (mandatory)
To override the tax amount for an invoice, sales order, or credit note, you need to map a single tax item from NetSuite. 
This mapped item will be used to assign the correct tax amount.

<Info>
This mapping follows a one-to-many structure, meaning that a single tax item can be mapped to override all tax amounts issued by Lago.
</Info>

<Frame caption="Map a tax item between Lago and NetSuite">
  <img src="integrations/images/mapping-tax-item-netsuite.png" />
</Frame>

### Mapping default objects
Coupons, credit notes, subscription fees, minimum commitments, and prepaid credits require a one-to-many mapping. 
Each of these objects must be mapped to a single default item from your NetSuite instance. Lago will use this mapped item 
whenever any of these objects appear on the final invoice sent to NetSuite.

<Info>
This mapping follows a one-to-many structure, meaning a single item can handle multiple mappings for coupons, credit notes, subscription fees, minimum commitments, and prepaid credits.
</Info>

<Frame caption="Map default items between Lago and NetSuite">
  <img src="integrations/images/mapping-default-items-netsuite.png" />
</Frame>


### Mapping custom objects
Billable metrics and add-ons require a one-to-one mapping. Each billable metric, used for usage-based billing, must represent a specific SKU in your NetSuite instance. 
You need to map each of these individually. Lago will use the mapped items whenever any of these metrics or add-ons appear on the final invoice sent to NetSuite.

<Info>
This mapping follows a one-to-one structure, meaning each billable metric or add-on must be mapped to a specific NetSuite item.
</Info>

<Frame caption="Map custom items between Lago and NetSuite">
  <img src="integrations/images/mapping-custom-items-netsuite.png" />
</Frame>


## Customers synchronization
When creating or updating a Lago customer, you can choose to link it to a NetSuite customer.

The first option is to **automatically create a new customer from Lago to NetSuite**. Follow these steps:
1. Create or update a new Lago customer;
2. Select the targeted NetSuite connection;
3. Check the box labeled 'Create this customer automatically in NetSuite';
4. Choose a NetSuite subsidiary from the list (Lago will fetch the list of subsidiaries from your NetSuite instance); and
5. Save and create this new customer.

If the customer is successfully created in NetSuite, a new field will be displayed in the Lago customer view, providing a direct link to the corresponding NetSuite customer.

<Info>
Customer creation from Lago to NetSuite happens in real-time with only a few seconds of delay.
</Info>


<Frame caption="Lago customer integrated with NetSuite">
  <img src="integrations/images/sync-customers-netsuite.png" />
</Frame>

The second option is to **import an existing NetSuite customer to a Lago customer**. Follow these steps:
1. Create or update a Lago customer;
2. Select the targeted NetSuite connection;
3. Ensure the box labeled 'Create this customer automatically in NetSuite' is unchecked;
4. Paste the NetSuite customer ID in the appropriate field; and
5. Save and create this new customer.

**Here is the list of fields that is currently synced to NetSuite:**
| Lago | NetSuite |
| --- | --- |
| customer | type |
| customer.name | companyname |
| customer.netsuite_subsidiary | subsidiary |
| customer.id | custbody_lago_id |
| customer.email | email |
| customer.phone | phone |
| customer.external_salesforce_id | custentity_lago_sf_id |


## Invoices synchronization
If a Lago customer is linked to a NetSuite customer, Lago syncs invoices to NetSuite Invoices in real-time.

It's important to note the following:
- Each fee issued by Lago is synced as a line item on a NetSuite invoice;
- The Lago fee `units` are synced to NetSuite as `quantity`;
- The Lago fee `precise_unit_amount` is synced to NetSuite as `rate`;
- Lago overrides the total tax amount of a NetSuite invoice using the tax item, as NetSuite does not support tax details at the line item level; and
- Any discounts on an invoice (coupon, credit note, or prepaid credits) are synced as negative line items on the NetSuite invoice.

If the invoice is successfully created in NetSuite, a new field will be displayed in the Lago invoice view, providing a direct link to the corresponding NetSuite invoice.

<Info>
Invoice creation from Lago to NetSuite happens in real-time with only a few seconds of delay.
</Info>

<Frame caption="Sync Lago invoices to NetSuite">
  <img src="integrations/images/sync-invoices-netsuite.png" />
</Frame>

**Here is the list of fields that is currently synced to NetSuite:**
| Lago | NetSuite |
| --- | --- |
| invoice | type |
| invoice.lago_id | tranid |
| customer.netsuite_internal_id | entity |
| true | istaxable |
| taxitem.id | taxitem |
| invoice.taxes_amount_cents | taxamountoverride |
| invoice.number | otherrefnum |
| invoice.lago_id | custbody_lago_id |
| invoice.fee.id | lineItems.item |
| invoice.fee.account_code | lineItems.account |
| invoice.fee.units | lineItems.quantity |
| invoice.fee.precise_unit_amount | lineItems.rate |

## Sales Orders synchronization
If a Lago customer is linked to a NetSuite customer and the Sales Orders action is enabled in your Lago-NetSuite connection, Lago syncs invoices to NetSuite Sales Orders in real-time.

Note that the same fields used to sync invoices are also used to sync sales orders.

**Here is the list of fields that is currently synced to NetSuite:**
| Lago | NetSuite |
| --- | --- |
| salesorder | type |
| invoice.lago_id | tranid |
| customer.netsuite_internal_id | entity |
| true | istaxable |
| taxitem.id | taxitem |
| invoice.taxes_amount_cents | taxamountoverride |
| invoice.number | otherrefnum |
| invoice.lago_id | custbody_lago_id |
| invoice.fee.id | lineItems.item |
| invoice.fee.account_code | lineItems.account |
| invoice.fee.units | lineItems.quantity |
| invoice.fee.precise_unit_amount | lineItems.rate |

## Credit Notes synchronization
If a Lago customer is linked to a NetSuite customer, Lago syncs credit notes to NetSuite Credit Memos in real-time.

It's important to note the following:
- Each fee refunded by Lago is synced as a line item on a NetSuite Credit Memo;
- Lago overrides the total tax amount of a NetSuite credit memo using the tax item, as NetSuite does not support tax details at the line item level; and
- Any discounts on an credit note (like coupon, for instance) are synced as line items on the NetSuite Credit Memo.

If the credit note is successfully created in NetSuite, a new field will be displayed in the Lago credit note view, providing a direct link to the corresponding NetSuite Credit Memo.

<Info>
Credit note creation from Lago to NetSuite happens in real-time with only a few seconds of delay.
</Info>

**Here is the list of fields that is currently synced to NetSuite:**
| Lago | NetSuite |
| --- | --- |
| creditmemo | type |
| invoice.lago_id | tranid |
| customer.netsuite_internal_id | entity |
| true | istaxable |
| taxitem.id | taxitem |
| invoice.taxes_amount_cents | taxamountoverride |
| invoice.number | otherrefnum |
| invoice.lago_id | custbody_lago_id |
| invoice.fee.id | lineItems.item |
| invoice.fee.account_code | lineItems.account |
| invoice.fee.units | lineItems.quantity |
| invoice.fee.precise_unit_amount | lineItems.rate |

## Payments synchronization
If a Lago invoice is tied to a NetSuite invoice, Lago automatically syncs payments occurring in Lago to NetSuite, updating in-real time the payment status of the invoice in NetSuite.

| Lago | NetSuite |
| --- | --- |
| customerpayment | type |
| customer.netsuite_internal_id | customer |
| invoice.netsuite_internal_id | lineItems.doc |
| true | lineItems.apply |
| invoice.total_amount_cents | lineItems.amount |
