guide/one-off-invoices/create-add-ons.mdx, before:

---
title: "Create add-ons"
description: "Add-ons are a useful feature that allows you to add a fixed charge that is not recurring to one-off invoices. 
This can be used to apply one-time fees such as a setup fee, one-time payment, or customer success fee."
---

<Tabs>
  <Tab title="Dashboard">
    To create an add-on through the user interface, follow these steps:

      1. Access the **"Add-ons"** section via the side menu;
      2. Click **"Add an add-on"**;
      3. Choose a name, a code, and a description (optional) for your add-on;
      4. Define its default value and currency (these values can be overwritten when creating the invoice); and
      5. Click **"Add add-on"** to confirm.
  </Tab>
  <Tab title="API">
  ```bash Create an add-on for "Setup Fees"
  LAGO_URL="https://api.getlago.com"
  API_KEY="__YOUR_API_KEY__"

  curl --location --request POST "$LAGO_URL/api/v1/add_ons" \
    --header "Authorization: Bearer $API_KEY" \
    --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
    --data-raw '{
      "add_on": {
        "name": "Setup Fee",
        "code": "setup",
        "amount_cents": 50000,
        "amount_currency": "USD",
        "description": "Charge a setup fee for new customers."
      }
    }'
  ```
  </Tab>
</Tabs>

In the add-ons section, you can edit or delete add-ons by clicking the ellipsis icon. 
Editing allows you to modify the name, code, description, and settings of the add-on, while deleting removes the add-on 
from the list (this action cannot be undone). Please note that you cannot edit or delete an add-on that has already been applied 
to a customer.

To assign an add-on to a customer, you need to create a one-off invoice. 
Simply select the add-on(s) you wish to apply from the add-ons section while creating the invoice, and the fixed charge 
will be added to the total amount due.

Commit message:

doc(Plans): Revamp overview to add fixed charges (#512)

guide/one-off-invoices/create-add-ons.mdx, after:

---
title: "Create add-ons"
description: "Add-ons let you apply one-time fixed fees to plans or one-off invoices. They are commonly used for setup fees, one-off charges, or customer success fees."
---

Add-ons represent non-recurring fixed charges. Once created, they can be:
- Added to a plan as a [fixed charge](/guide/plans/charges/fixed-charges), or
- Applied directly to a customer through a [one-off invoice](/guide/one-off-invoices/create-one-off-invoices)

<Tabs>
  <Tab title="Dashboard">
    To create an add-on from the dashboard:
      1. Open the **Add-ons** section from the side menu  
      2. Click **Add an add-on**  
      3. Enter a name, code, and optional description  
      4. Define the default amount and currency *(these values can be overridden when issuing an invoice)*  
      5. Click **Add add-on** to confirm
  </Tab>
  <Tab title="API">
  ```bash Create a Setup Fee add-on 
  LAGO_URL="https://api.getlago.com"
  API_KEY="__YOUR_API_KEY__"

  curl --location --request POST "$LAGO_URL/api/v1/add_ons" \
    --header "Authorization: Bearer $API_KEY" \
    --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
    --data-raw '{
      "add_on": {
        "name": "Setup Fee",
        "code": "setup",
        "amount_cents": 50000,
        "amount_currency": "USD",
        "description": "Charge a setup fee for new customers."
      }
    }'
  ```
  </Tab>
</Tabs>

## Use an add-on
Once created, an add-on can be:
- Added to a **plan** as a fixed charge, or
- Applied to a **specific customer** through a one-off invoice

## Manage add-ons
From the **Add-ons** section, you can edit or delete existing add-ons using the ellipsis menu.
- **Editing** lets you update the name, code, description, and default values  
- **Deleting** permanently removes the add-on from all plans and subscriptions where it is used *(this action cannot be undone)*
