api-reference/events/batch.mdx, before:

---
openapi: "POST /events/batch"
authMethod: "bearer"
title: "Batch usage events"
description: "This endpoint is used for transmitting usage measurement events in batch multiple subscriptions of the same customer."
---

<Warning>
  Please be aware that charges paid in advance are not compatible with this batch events endpoint.
</Warning>

<RequestExample>

```bash cURL
LAGO_URL="https://api.getlago.com"
API_KEY="__YOUR_API_KEY__"

curl --location --request POST "$LAGO_URL/api/v1/events/batch" \
--header "Authorization: Bearer $API_KEY" \
--header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
--data-raw '{
      "event": {
          "transaction_id": "__UNIQUE_ID__",
          "external_subscription_ids": ["__SUBSCRIPTION_ID_1__", "__SUBSCRIPTION_ID_2__"],
          "code": "__BILLABLE_METRIC_CODE__",
          "timestamp": $(date +%s),
          "properties": {
            "custom_field": 12
          }
      }
  }'
```

```python Python
from lago_python_client.client import Client
from lago_python_client.exceptions import LagoApiError
from lago_python_client.models import BatchEvent

client = Client(api_key='__YOUR_API_KEY__')

event = BatchEvent(
  external_subscription_ids=["__SUBSCRIPTION_ID_1__", "__SUBSCRIPTION_ID_2__"],
  transaction_id="__UNIQUE_ID__",
  code="__BILLABLE_METRIC_CODE__",
  timestamp=1650893379,
  properties={"custom_field": "custom"}
)

try:
    client.events.batch_create(event)
except LagoApiError as e:
    repair_broken_state(e)  # do something on error or raise your own exception
```

```ruby Ruby
require 'lago-ruby-client'

client = Lago::Api::Client.new({api_key: '__YOUR_API_KEY__'})

client.events.batch_create(
  transaction_id: "__UNIQUE_ID__",
  external_subscription_ids: ["__SUBSCRIPTION_ID_1__", "__SUBSCRIPTION_ID_2__"],
  code:  "__BILLABLE_METRIC_CODE__",
  timestamp: Time.now.to_i,
  properties: {
    custom_field: 12
  }
)
```

```js Javascript
const batchEvent = {
  transactionId: "__UNIQUE_TRANSACTION_ID__",
  externalSubscriptionIds: ["__SUBSCRIPTION_ID_1__", "__SUBSCRIPTION_ID_2__"],
  code: "__BILLABLE_METRIC_CODE__",
  timestamp: 1650893379,
  properties: { customField: "custom" },
};

await client.events.createBatchEvents({ event: batchEvent });
```

```csharp C#
using System.Collections.Generic;
using System.Diagnostics;
using Org.OpenAPITools.Api;
using Org.OpenAPITools.Client;
using Org.OpenAPITools.Model;

namespace Example
{
  public class CreateBatchEventsExample
  {
      public static void Main()
      {
          Configuration.Default.BasePath = "https://api.getlago.com/api/v1";
          // Configure HTTP bearer authorization: bearerAuth
          Configuration.Default.AccessToken = "YOUR_ACCESS_TOKEN";

          var apiInstance = new EventsApi(Configuration.Default);
          var batchEventInput = new BatchEventInput(); // BatchEventInput | Batch events payload

          try
          {
              // Create batch events
              apiInstance.CreateBatchEvents(batchEventInput);
          }
          catch (ApiException e)
          {
              Debug.Print("Exception when calling EventsApi.CreateBatchEvents: " + e.Message );
              Debug.Print("Status Code: "+ e.ErrorCode);
              Debug.Print(e.StackTrace);
          }
      }
  }
}
```

```php PHP
<?php
require_once(__DIR__ . '/vendor/autoload.php');


// Configure Bearer authorization: bearerAuth
$config = OpenAPI\Client\Configuration::getDefaultConfiguration()->setAccessToken('YOUR_ACCESS_TOKEN');


$apiInstance = new OpenAPI\Client\Api\EventsApi(
  // If you want use custom http client, pass your client which implements `GuzzleHttp\ClientInterface`.
  // This is optional, `GuzzleHttp\Client` will be used as default.
  new GuzzleHttp\Client(),
  $config
);
$batch_event_input = new \OpenAPI\Client\Model\BatchEventInput(); // \OpenAPI\Client\Model\BatchEventInput | Batch events payload

try {
  $apiInstance->createBatchEvents($batch_event_input);
} catch (Exception $e) {
  echo 'Exception when calling EventsApi->createBatchEvents: ', $e->getMessage(), PHP_EOL;
}
```

</RequestExample>

Commit message:

Mark batch endpoint as deprecated

api-reference/events/batch.mdx, after:

---
openapi: "POST /events/batch"
authMethod: "bearer"
title: "Batch usage events"
description: "This endpoint is deprecated. It is used for transmitting usage measurement events to multiple subscriptions belonging to the same customer."
---

<Warning>
  This endpoint is deprecated and will be removed on November 30, 2023.
  
  In addition, please note that you cannot use the batch endpoint for charges that are paid in advance.
</Warning>

<RequestExample>

```bash cURL
LAGO_URL="https://api.getlago.com"
API_KEY="__YOUR_API_KEY__"

curl --location --request POST "$LAGO_URL/api/v1/events/batch" \
--header "Authorization: Bearer $API_KEY" \
--header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
--data-raw '{
      "event": {
          "transaction_id": "__UNIQUE_ID__",
          "external_subscription_ids": ["__SUBSCRIPTION_ID_1__", "__SUBSCRIPTION_ID_2__"],
          "code": "__BILLABLE_METRIC_CODE__",
          "timestamp": $(date +%s),
          "properties": {
            "custom_field": 12
          }
      }
  }'
```

```python Python
from lago_python_client.client import Client
from lago_python_client.exceptions import LagoApiError
from lago_python_client.models import BatchEvent

client = Client(api_key='__YOUR_API_KEY__')

event = BatchEvent(
  external_subscription_ids=["__SUBSCRIPTION_ID_1__", "__SUBSCRIPTION_ID_2__"],
  transaction_id="__UNIQUE_ID__",
  code="__BILLABLE_METRIC_CODE__",
  timestamp=1650893379,
  properties={"custom_field": "custom"}
)

try:
    client.events.batch_create(event)
except LagoApiError as e:
    repair_broken_state(e)  # do something on error or raise your own exception
```

```ruby Ruby
require 'lago-ruby-client'

client = Lago::Api::Client.new({api_key: '__YOUR_API_KEY__'})

client.events.batch_create(
  transaction_id: "__UNIQUE_ID__",
  external_subscription_ids: ["__SUBSCRIPTION_ID_1__", "__SUBSCRIPTION_ID_2__"],
  code:  "__BILLABLE_METRIC_CODE__",
  timestamp: Time.now.to_i,
  properties: {
    custom_field: 12
  }
)
```

```js Javascript
const batchEvent = {
  transactionId: "__UNIQUE_TRANSACTION_ID__",
  externalSubscriptionIds: ["__SUBSCRIPTION_ID_1__", "__SUBSCRIPTION_ID_2__"],
  code: "__BILLABLE_METRIC_CODE__",
  timestamp: 1650893379,
  properties: { customField: "custom" },
};

await client.events.createBatchEvents({ event: batchEvent });
```

```csharp C#
using System.Collections.Generic;
using System.Diagnostics;
using Org.OpenAPITools.Api;
using Org.OpenAPITools.Client;
using Org.OpenAPITools.Model;

namespace Example
{
  public class CreateBatchEventsExample
  {
      public static void Main()
      {
          Configuration.Default.BasePath = "https://api.getlago.com/api/v1";
          // Configure HTTP bearer authorization: bearerAuth
          Configuration.Default.AccessToken = "YOUR_ACCESS_TOKEN";

          var apiInstance = new EventsApi(Configuration.Default);
          var batchEventInput = new BatchEventInput(); // BatchEventInput | Batch events payload

          try
          {
              // Create batch events
              apiInstance.CreateBatchEvents(batchEventInput);
          }
          catch (ApiException e)
          {
              Debug.Print("Exception when calling EventsApi.CreateBatchEvents: " + e.Message );
              Debug.Print("Status Code: "+ e.ErrorCode);
              Debug.Print(e.StackTrace);
          }
      }
  }
}
```

```php PHP
<?php
require_once(__DIR__ . '/vendor/autoload.php');


// Configure Bearer authorization: bearerAuth
$config = OpenAPI\Client\Configuration::getDefaultConfiguration()->setAccessToken('YOUR_ACCESS_TOKEN');


$apiInstance = new OpenAPI\Client\Api\EventsApi(
  // If you want use custom http client, pass your client which implements `GuzzleHttp\ClientInterface`.
  // This is optional, `GuzzleHttp\Client` will be used as default.
  new GuzzleHttp\Client(),
  $config
);
$batch_event_input = new \OpenAPI\Client\Model\BatchEventInput(); // \OpenAPI\Client\Model\BatchEventInput | Batch events payload

try {
  $apiInstance->createBatchEvents($batch_event_input);
} catch (Exception $e) {
  echo 'Exception when calling EventsApi->createBatchEvents: ', $e->getMessage(), PHP_EOL;
}
```

</RequestExample>
