guide/plans/charges/charge-models/dynamic.mdx, before:

---
title: "Dynamic"
---

Select the dynamic charge model if you calculate the price yourself or if the prices fluctuate during a billing period and you want to apply a specific amount per event (e.g., SMS API, AI models, etc.)

Let’s take the example of our AI company. You may want to charge a custom price per event. Consider the following list of events:

| Event         | Metric             | Unit | Total amount |
| ------------- | ------------------ | ---- | ------------ |
| Transaction 1 | Dedicated Instance | 7    | $0.70        |
| Transaction 2 | Dedicated Instance | 5    | $0.55        |
| Transaction 3 | Dedicated Instance | 10   | $2.20        |
| Transaction 4 | Dedicated Instance | 10   | $1.40        |
| Transaction 5 | Dedicated Instance | 5    | $0.50        |

At the end of the period, the invoice will generate **one fee of $5.35** (see example bellow).

| Item               | Unit | Unit price | Amount |
| ------------------ | ---- | ---------- | ------ |
| Dedicated Instance | 37   | $0.144594  | $5.35  |

To display more detailed information on fees, please refer to the [custom invoice grouping](/guide/invoicing/overview#custom-invoice-grouping) or the [pay in advance](/guide/plans/charges/arrears-vs-advance#charges-paid-in-advance) option.

<Note>

Only the `standard` & `dynamic` charge models support the [custom invoice grouping](/guide/invoicing/overview#custom-invoice-grouping).

</Note>

Commit message:

doc(Charges): Add sum agg type in doc

guide/plans/charges/charge-models/dynamic.mdx, after:

---
title: "Dynamic"
---

<Note>

Only the `sum` aggregation type is compatible with the `dynamic` charge model.
If you have a different use case, please reach out to the Lago team for assistance.

</Note>

Select the dynamic charge model if you calculate the price yourself or if the prices fluctuate during a billing period and you want to apply a specific amount per event (e.g., SMS API, AI models, etc.)

Let’s take the example of our AI company. You may want to charge a custom price per event. Consider the following list of events:

| Event         | Metric             | Unit | Total amount |
| ------------- | ------------------ | ---- | ------------ |
| Transaction 1 | Dedicated Instance | 7    | $0.70        |
| Transaction 2 | Dedicated Instance | 5    | $0.55        |
| Transaction 3 | Dedicated Instance | 10   | $2.20        |
| Transaction 4 | Dedicated Instance | 10   | $1.40        |
| Transaction 5 | Dedicated Instance | 5    | $0.50        |

At the end of the period, the invoice will generate **one fee of $5.35** (see example bellow).

| Item               | Unit | Unit price | Amount |
| ------------------ | ---- | ---------- | ------ |
| Dedicated Instance | 37   | $0.144594  | $5.35  |

To display more detailed information on fees, please refer to the [custom invoice grouping](/guide/invoicing/overview#custom-invoice-grouping) or the [pay in advance](/guide/plans/charges/arrears-vs-advance#charges-paid-in-advance) option.

<Note>

Only the `standard` & `dynamic` charge models support the [custom invoice grouping](/guide/invoicing/overview#custom-invoice-grouping).

</Note>
