guide/credit-notes.mdx, before:

---
title: "Credit notes"
---

<Info>
**PREMIUM FEATURE** ✨

Lago may automatically generate a credit note when a subscription is upgraded or
downgraded. However, only users with a premium license can manually generate
credit notes via the user interface or the API. Please
**[contact us](mailto:hello@getlago.com)** to get access to Lago Cloud and Lago
Self-Hosted Premium.

</Info>

Issue a credit note to refund or credit a `finalized` invoice back to your customer’s account.

## Access credit notes creation flow[](#create-credit-notes "Direct link to heading")

<Info>
  Credit notes can only be issued for invoices with the status `finalized` and
  an amount greater than zero.
</Info>

To create a credit note through the user interface:

1. Go to the **"Customers"** section;
2. Select a customer to open the customer view;
3. Open the **"Invoices"** tab;
4. Click an invoice to see its details; and
5. Select **"Issue a credit note"** from the **"Actions"** dropdown (upper right corner).

The credit note creation process varies depending on the payment status of the
invoice:

- If the payment status of the invoice is `pending` or `failed`, the credit note
  will allow you to credit back the customer's account; and
- If the payment status of the invoice is `succeeded`, the credit note will
  allow you to credit back the customer's account and/or refund them.

<Info>
  Credit notes can only be issued for prepaid credit invoices with a `succeeded`
  payment status. These credit notes are refundable only for this type of
  invoice and will directly void prepaid credits in the associated wallet.
</Info>

<Info>
  Prepaid credits or existing credit notes applied to a subscription invoice
  cannot be refunded; they can only be credited back to the customer’s account.
  Coupons can neither be refunded nor credited back to the customer’s account.
</Info>

## Issue a credit note

<Tabs>
  <Tab title="Dashboard">
    1. Select a reason from the list (e.g. duplicate charge, order cancelation,
      etc.);
    2. Add an internal note (optional);
    3. Select the item(s) and enter the amount(s) you want to credit;
    4. Select the credit method(s) (only available for paid invoices -
      [learn more](#credit-methods)); and
    5. Click **"Issue credit note"** to confirm.

    <Info>
      For each item, you must enter a credit amount equal to or less than the
      initial amount of the item, excluding tax. The total amount of the credit note
      cannot exceed the total amount of the invoice.
    </Info>

  </Tab>
  <Tab title="API">
  ```bash Create a credit note
  LAGO_URL="https://api.getlago.com"
  API_KEY="__YOUR_API_KEY__"

    curl --location --request POST "$LAGO_URL/api/v1/credit_notes" \
    --header "Authorization: Bearer $API_KEY" \
    --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
    --data-raw '{
      "credit_note": {
        "invoice_id": "**LAGO_INVOICE_ID**",
        "reason": "duplicated_charge",
        "credit_amount_cents": 10,
        "refund_amount_cents": 5,
        "items": [
          {
            "fee_id": "__LAGO_FEE_ID__",
            "amount_cents": 10
          },
          {
            "fee_id": "__LAGO_FEE_ID__",
            "amount_cents": 5
          }
        ]
      }
    }'

```
</Tab>
</Tabs>

When the credit note is created, it will appear below the original invoice on
the invoice details page and in the **"Credit notes"** tab of the customer view.
In addition to this, a `credit_note.created` [webhook](/api-reference/webhooks/messages)
will automatically be sent by Lago.

You can link several credit notes to an invoice. Like invoices, credit notes
have a unique number and can be downloaded in PDF format.

<Frame caption="Credit note detail">
<img src="/guide/images/credit-note-39fd904adb8cc192e4e78320171c388f.png" />
</Frame>


## Credit methods[](#credit-methods "Direct link to heading")

### Refund[](#refund "Direct link to heading")

When a credit note involves a refund, the amount of the refund will be included in the `credit_note.created` [webhook](/api-reference/webhooks/messages), which allows you to proceed with the payment.

The credit note will also contain a `refund_status` field, which can be set to `pending`, `succeeded`, or `failed`. You can update the refund status via the API.

Refunding a prepaid credit invoice will automatically void the corresponding prepaid credits in the active wallet.

<Tip>
If you use one of our native payment integrations, the refund process will
automatically be triggered by Lago.
</Tip>

### Credit note wallet[](#credit-note-wallet "Direct link to heading")

The amount of the credit note that is not refunded is credited to the customer's
account via a credit note wallet. The credit amount is included in the
`credit_note.created` [webhook](/api-reference/webhooks/messages) and displayed on the
credit note details page.

<Info>
A credit note wallet is linked to a single credit note and therefore, to a
single invoice. If there are several credit notes linked to the customer's
account, Lago will create a credit note wallet for each of them.

Credit note wallets are different from wallets associated with [prepaid credits](/guide/wallet-and-prepaid-credits).

</Info>

The total amount available in the credit note wallets will be deducted from the
subtotal of the customer's next invoice(s), after tax (see below).

```

## EXAMPLE OF INVOICE

All subscriptions = $50
All usage-based fees = $20
Coupons = $10

---

Subtotal (excl. tax) = $60
Tax (10%) = $ 6

---

Subtotal (incl. tax) = $66
Credit notes = $20
Prepaid credits = $30

---

Total due = $16

````

When the credit note wallet is created, the initial `credit_status` is
`available`. Then when the amount of the credit note wallet is zero, the status
switches to `consumed`.


## Void available credit[](#void-credit-note "Direct link to heading")

You can void the available credit linked to a specific credit note. To do so:

<Tabs>
  <Tab title="Dashboard">
    1. Go to the **"Customers"** section;
    2. Select a customer to open the customer view;
    3. Open the **"Credit notes"** tab;
    4. Click a credit note to see its details; and
    5. Select **"Void credit available"** from the **"Actions"** dropdown (upper
      right corner).

    <Warning>
      When voiding a credit note wallet, the remaining credit amount will be lost
      and the `credit_status` will switch to `voided`. This action cannot be
      canceled.
    </Warning>
  </Tab>
  <Tab title="API">
  ```bash Void a credit note
  LAGO_URL="https://api.getlago.com"
  CREDIT_NOTE_ID="__YOU_CREDIT_NOTE_ID__"
  API_KEY="__YOUR_API_KEY__"

  curl --location --request PUT "$LAGO_URL/api/v1/credit_notes/$CREDIT_NOTE_ID/void" \
    --header "Authorization: Bearer $API_KEY" \
    --header 'Content-Type: application/json'
````

  </Tab>
</Tabs>

Commit message:

doc(Credit notes): Add more calrity on scope

guide/credit-notes.mdx, after:

---
title: "Credit notes"
---

<Info>
**PREMIUM FEATURE** ✨

Lago may automatically generate a credit note when a subscription is upgraded or
downgraded. However, only users with a premium license can manually generate
credit notes via the user interface or the API. Please
**[contact us](mailto:hello@getlago.com)** to get access to Lago Cloud and Lago
Self-Hosted Premium.

</Info>

Issue a credit note to refund or credit a `finalized` invoice back to your customer’s account.
Credit notes can be issued for all types of invoices. However, please note that credit notes cannot be issued for prepaid credit purchases that have already been consumed or are linked to a terminated wallet.

## Access credit notes creation flow[](#create-credit-notes "Direct link to heading")

<Info>
  Credit notes can only be issued for invoices with the status `finalized` and
  an amount greater than zero.
</Info>

To create a credit note through the user interface:

1. Go to the **"Customers"** section;
2. Select a customer to open the customer view;
3. Open the **"Invoices"** tab;
4. Click an invoice to see its details; and
5. Select **"Issue a credit note"** from the **"Actions"** dropdown (upper right corner).

The credit note creation process varies depending on the payment status of the
invoice:

- If the payment status of the invoice is `pending` or `failed`, the credit note
  will allow you to credit back the customer's account; and
- If the payment status of the invoice is `succeeded`, the credit note will
  allow you to credit back the customer's account and/or refund them.

<Info>
  Credit notes can only be issued for prepaid credit invoices with a `succeeded`
  payment status. These credit notes are refundable only for this type of
  invoice and will directly void prepaid credits in the associated wallet.
</Info>

<Info>
  Prepaid credits or existing credit notes applied to a subscription invoice
  cannot be refunded; they can only be credited back to the customer’s account.
  Coupons can neither be refunded nor credited back to the customer’s account.
</Info>

## Issue a credit note

<Tabs>
  <Tab title="Dashboard">
    1. Select a reason from the list (e.g. duplicate charge, order cancelation,
      etc.);
    2. Add an internal note (optional);
    3. Select the item(s) and enter the amount(s) you want to credit;
    4. Select the credit method(s) (only available for paid invoices -
      [learn more](#credit-methods)); and
    5. Click **"Issue credit note"** to confirm.

    <Info>
      For each item, you must enter a credit amount equal to or less than the
      initial amount of the item, excluding tax. The total amount of the credit note
      cannot exceed the total amount of the invoice.
    </Info>

  </Tab>
  <Tab title="API">
  ```bash Create a credit note
  LAGO_URL="https://api.getlago.com"
  API_KEY="__YOUR_API_KEY__"

    curl --location --request POST "$LAGO_URL/api/v1/credit_notes" \
    --header "Authorization: Bearer $API_KEY" \
    --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
    --data-raw '{
      "credit_note": {
        "invoice_id": "**LAGO_INVOICE_ID**",
        "reason": "duplicated_charge",
        "credit_amount_cents": 10,
        "refund_amount_cents": 5,
        "items": [
          {
            "fee_id": "__LAGO_FEE_ID__",
            "amount_cents": 10
          },
          {
            "fee_id": "__LAGO_FEE_ID__",
            "amount_cents": 5
          }
        ]
      }
    }'

```
</Tab>
</Tabs>

When the credit note is created, it will appear below the original invoice on
the invoice details page and in the **"Credit notes"** tab of the customer view.
In addition to this, a `credit_note.created` [webhook](/api-reference/webhooks/messages)
will automatically be sent by Lago.

You can link several credit notes to an invoice. Like invoices, credit notes
have a unique number and can be downloaded in PDF format.

<Frame caption="Credit note detail">
<img src="/guide/images/credit-note-39fd904adb8cc192e4e78320171c388f.png" />
</Frame>


## Credit methods[](#credit-methods "Direct link to heading")

### Refund[](#refund "Direct link to heading")

When a credit note involves a refund, the amount of the refund will be included in the `credit_note.created` [webhook](/api-reference/webhooks/messages), which allows you to proceed with the payment.

The credit note will also contain a `refund_status` field, which can be set to `pending`, `succeeded`, or `failed`. You can update the refund status via the API.

Refunding a prepaid credit invoice will automatically void the corresponding prepaid credits in the active wallet.

<Tip>
If you use one of our native payment integrations, the refund process will
automatically be triggered by Lago.
</Tip>

### Credit note wallet[](#credit-note-wallet "Direct link to heading")

The amount of the credit note that is not refunded is credited to the customer's
account via a credit note wallet. The credit amount is included in the
`credit_note.created` [webhook](/api-reference/webhooks/messages) and displayed on the
credit note details page.

<Info>
A credit note wallet is linked to a single credit note and therefore, to a
single invoice. If there are several credit notes linked to the customer's
account, Lago will create a credit note wallet for each of them.

Credit note wallets are different from wallets associated with [prepaid credits](/guide/wallet-and-prepaid-credits).

</Info>

The total amount available in the credit note wallets will be deducted from the
subtotal of the customer's next invoice(s), after tax (see below).

```

## EXAMPLE OF INVOICE

All subscriptions = $50
All usage-based fees = $20
Coupons = $10

---

Subtotal (excl. tax) = $60
Tax (10%) = $ 6

---

Subtotal (incl. tax) = $66
Credit notes = $20
Prepaid credits = $30

---

Total due = $16

````

When the credit note wallet is created, the initial `credit_status` is
`available`. Then when the amount of the credit note wallet is zero, the status
switches to `consumed`.


## Void available credit[](#void-credit-note "Direct link to heading")

You can void the available credit linked to a specific credit note. To do so:

<Tabs>
  <Tab title="Dashboard">
    1. Go to the **"Customers"** section;
    2. Select a customer to open the customer view;
    3. Open the **"Credit notes"** tab;
    4. Click a credit note to see its details; and
    5. Select **"Void credit available"** from the **"Actions"** dropdown (upper
      right corner).

    <Warning>
      When voiding a credit note wallet, the remaining credit amount will be lost
      and the `credit_status` will switch to `voided`. This action cannot be
      canceled.
    </Warning>
  </Tab>
  <Tab title="API">
  ```bash Void a credit note
  LAGO_URL="https://api.getlago.com"
  CREDIT_NOTE_ID="__YOU_CREDIT_NOTE_ID__"
  API_KEY="__YOUR_API_KEY__"

  curl --location --request PUT "$LAGO_URL/api/v1/credit_notes/$CREDIT_NOTE_ID/void" \
    --header "Authorization: Bearer $API_KEY" \
    --header 'Content-Type: application/json'
````

  </Tab>
</Tabs>
