guide/payments/stripe-integration.mdx, before:

---
title: "Stripe integration"
description:
  "Lago's native integration with Stripe allows you to collect payments
  automatically when new invoices are generated."
---

## Watch the demo video
<iframe width="100%" height="400" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/NH8MCMaHeFM" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## Integration setup[](#integration-setup "Direct link to heading")

To set up the integration with Stripe through the user interface:

1. In the side menu, select **"Settings"**;
2. Select the **"Integrations"** tab;
3. Click **"Stripe"** and add a new connection;
4. Give this new connection a name and a code;
5. Enter your Stripe API key ([locate your API key](https://support.stripe.com/questions/locate-api-keys-in-the-dashboard)); and
6. Click **"Connect to Stripe"** to confirm.

<Info>
  By default, customers created in Lago are not automatically created in Stripe.
  If you want your Lago customers to be added to Stripe, you need to activate
  this option ([learn more](#new-customer)).
</Info>

## Redirect url after checkout[](#checkout-redirect-url "Direct link to heading")
After establishing the connection with Stripe, set a success URL where your end customer will be directed after completing the checkout. 
Please note that if it's not defined, your end customer will be redirected to Stripe's website.

Please note that you can edit or delete the redirect URL, and this will only affect new checkout URLs created.

<Warning>
  URL defined should always begin with `http://` or `https://`.
</Warning>

## Customer information[](#customer-information "Direct link to heading")

To collect payments automatically, the customer must exist in both the Lago and
Stripe databases.

### New customer[](#new-customer "Direct link to heading")

If the customer does not already exist in Stripe, you can first create them in
Lago, either via the user interface or [the API](/api-reference/customers/create).
When adding customer information, you must:

1. Define Stripe as the **default payment provider**;
2. Leave the field associated with the **Stripe customer ID** blank;
3. **Enable** the option to automatically create the customer in Stripe; and
4. Define payment method options for this customer. Possible values are `card`, `link`, `sepa_debit`, `us_bank_account` and `bacs_debit`.

The customer will automatically be added to Stripe. Stripe will then return the
customer ID, which will be stored in Lago.

<Frame caption="Creation of a new customer with Stripe">
  <img src="/guide/payments/images/stripe-customer-new.png" />
</Frame>

### Existing customer[](#existing-customer "Direct link to heading")

If the customer already exists in Stripe but not in Lago, you should create the
customer record, either via the user interface or
[the API](/api-reference/customers/create). When adding customer
information, you must:

1. Define Stripe as the **default payment provider**;
2. Provide the **Stripe customer ID**;
3. **Disable** the option to automatically create the customer in Stripe; and
4. Define payment method options for this customer. Possible values are `card`, `link`, `sepa_debit`, `us_bank_account` and `bacs_debit`.


<Frame caption="Migration of an existing Stripe customer">
  <img src="/guide/payments/images/stripe-customer-migration.png" />
</Frame>

## Supported payment methods
Lago's Stripe integration accommodates a variety of payment methods, both generic and region-specific. 
The checkout URL provided by Lago is designed to handle multiple payment options seamlessly.

<AccordionGroup>
  <Accordion title="Card payments" icon="credit-card">
    Lago's Stripe integration includes a universal card payment method that supports various currencies, ideal for global transactions. 
    This method is set as the default to facilitate recurring payments, ensuring Lago can process charges for your customers efficiently.
    ```bash
        LAGO_URL="https://api.getlago.com"
    API_KEY="__YOUR_API_KEY__"

    curl --location --request POST "$LAGO_URL/api/v1/customers" \
      --header "Authorization: Bearer $API_KEY" \
      --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
      --data-raw '{
        "customer": {
          "external_id": "5eb02857-a71e-4ea2-bcf9-57d3a41bc6ba",
          "address_line1": "5230 Penfield Ave",
          "billing_configuration": {
            "invoice_grace_period": 3,
            "payment_provider": "stripe",
            "provider_customer_id": "cus_12345",
            "sync": true,
            "sync_with_provider": true,
            "provider_payment_methods": ["card"]
          }
        }
      }'
    ```
  </Accordion>
  <Accordion title="SEPA debits (EU only)" icon="money-bill-transfer">
    For European customers, Lago supports Stripe SEPA Debit (Single Euro Payments Area). 
    Accepting a mandate through this method authorizes you to debit your customers' accounts for recurring payments via Lago. 
    The designated payment method for SEPA transactions within Lago is identified as `sepa_debit`. 
    It's important to note that **this payment option is exclusive to invoices in `EUR` currency**.

    ```bash
        LAGO_URL="https://api.getlago.com"
    API_KEY="__YOUR_API_KEY__"

    curl --location --request POST "$LAGO_URL/api/v1/customers" \
      --header "Authorization: Bearer $API_KEY" \
      --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
      --data-raw '{
        "customer": {
          "external_id": "5eb02857-a71e-4ea2-bcf9-57d3a41bc6ba",
          "address_line1": "5230 Penfield Ave",
          "billing_configuration": {
            "invoice_grace_period": 3,
            "payment_provider": "stripe",
            "provider_customer_id": "cus_12345",
            "sync": true,
            "sync_with_provider": true,
            "provider_payment_methods": ["sepa_debit"]
          }
        }
      }'
    ```
  </Accordion>
  <Accordion title="ACH debits (US only)" icon="flag-usa">
    For US-based transactions, Lago integrates Stripe ACH Debit, leveraging the Automated Clearing House for electronic bank-to-bank payments. 
    Upon accepting a mandate, you gain authorization to execute recurring debits from your customers' accounts through Lago. 
    The designated payment method for ACH transactions within Lago is identified as `us_bank_account`. 
    It's important to note that **this payment option is exclusive to invoices in `USD` currency**.

    ```bash
    LAGO_URL="https://api.getlago.com"
    API_KEY="__YOUR_API_KEY__"

    curl --location --request POST "$LAGO_URL/api/v1/customers" \
      --header "Authorization: Bearer $API_KEY" \
      --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
      --data-raw '{
        "customer": {
          "external_id": "5eb02857-a71e-4ea2-bcf9-57d3a41bc6ba",
          "address_line1": "5230 Penfield Ave",
          "billing_configuration": {
            "invoice_grace_period": 3,
            "payment_provider": "stripe",
            "provider_customer_id": "cus_12345",
            "sync": true,
            "sync_with_provider": true,
            "provider_payment_methods": ["us_bank_account"]
          }
        }
      }'
    ```
  </Accordion>
  <Accordion title="BACS debits (UK only)" icon="credit-card-front">
    For UK transactions, Lago integrates Stripe BACS Debit, utilizing the UK's BACS system for direct bank-to-bank payments. 
    By accepting a mandate with this method, you're authorized to initiate recurring debits from your customers' accounts through Lago. 
    The specific payment method for BACS transactions within Lago is designated as `bacs_debit`. 
    It's important to note that **this payment method is exclusively for invoices in `GBP` currency.**

    ```bash
    LAGO_URL="https://api.getlago.com"
    API_KEY="__YOUR_API_KEY__"

    curl --location --request POST "$LAGO_URL/api/v1/customers" \
      --header "Authorization: Bearer $API_KEY" \
      --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
      --data-raw '{
        "customer": {
          "external_id": "5eb02857-a71e-4ea2-bcf9-57d3a41bc6ba",
          "address_line1": "5230 Penfield Ave",
          "billing_configuration": {
            "invoice_grace_period": 3,
            "payment_provider": "stripe",
            "provider_customer_id": "cus_12345",
            "sync": true,
            "sync_with_provider": true,
            "provider_payment_methods": ["bacs_debit"]
          }
        }
      }'
    ```
  </Accordion>
  <Accordion title="Link" icon="link">
    For card transactions, you can enable the [Link](https://stripe.com/payments/link) feature to offer one-click payments. 
    Link automatically fills in your customers' payment information, ensuring a seamless and secure checkout experience.

    <Warning>
      If you are using the `link` feature, it must be used in conjunction with `card`.
    </Warning>

    ```bash
    LAGO_URL="https://api.getlago.com"
    API_KEY="__YOUR_API_KEY__"

    curl --location --request POST "$LAGO_URL/api/v1/customers" \
      --header "Authorization: Bearer $API_KEY" \
      --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
      --data-raw '{
        "customer": {
          "external_id": "5eb02857-a71e-4ea2-bcf9-57d3a41bc6ba",
          "address_line1": "5230 Penfield Ave",
          "billing_configuration": {
            "invoice_grace_period": 3,
            "payment_provider": "stripe",
            "provider_customer_id": "cus_12345",
            "sync": true,
            "sync_with_provider": true,
            "provider_payment_methods": ["card", "link"]
          }
        }
      }'
    ```
  </Accordion>
</AccordionGroup>

## Stripe Checkout: storing customer's payment method information
<Info>
  Checkout page shows only selected payment methods for customers.
</Info>
When Lago automatically creates a customer in Stripe, you will receive a checkout link from Lago to facilitate the storage of your customer's payment method information.

The payload sent by Lago will have the following structure, with the checkout link stored under `checkout_url`:

```json
{
  "webhook_type": "customer.checkout_url_generated",
  "object_type": "payment_provider_customer_checkout_url",
  "payment_provider_customer_checkout_url": {
    "lago_customer_id": "88d23508-47fd-46bb-a87e-50c50f3cb371",
    "external_customer_id": "hooli_1234",
    "payment_provider": "stripe",
    "checkout_url": "https://checkout.stripe.com/c/pay/prod_c15sTbBMLep5FKOA9b9pZBiRBBYYSU1IJ5T89I5TTtpKgzE380JSmxnVYz#fidkdWxOYHw"
  }
}
```
<Warning>
Note: The checkout link automatically expires after 24 hours!
</Warning>

By utilizing this provided checkout link, your customers can perform a pre-authorization payment. It's important to note that the pre-authorization payment will not collect any funds from the customer. Once the pre-authorization is confirmed, Lago will send the payment method details and securely store them into Stripe for future transactions.

## Regenerate checkout link on demand
In cases where your end customer has not had the opportunity to complete the checkout process to inform their payment method 
or wishes to modify the saved payment information, you can generate a new checkout link using the designated [endpoint](/api-reference/customers/psp-checkout-url).

```bash
POST /api/v1/customers/:customer_external_id/checkout_url
```

Upon successful generation, the new checkout link will be available in the endpoint response, and it will not be delivered through a webhook message. 
It is important to note that the new link will inherit the same expiration setting as the original one.

It is crucial to be aware that if a customer is not associated with any payment provider, the response will contain an error message.

## Default payment method
When you add a new payment method in Stripe, **Lago automatically sets it as the default**. 
This guarantees that Lago uses the latest payment method for a customer. However, if you manually designate one of 
multiple payment methods as the default, Lago will use it for payments instead the most recent one.


## Payment intents[](#payment-intents "Direct link to heading")

Once Stripe is connected and the customer exists in both databases, you can
start collecting payments.

Each time a new invoice with an **amount greater than zero** is generated by
Lago, a payment intent will automatically be created. Stripe will record the
invoice ID and process the payment. If the payment is successful, the status of
the payment will switch from `pending` to `succeeded`.

If the payment fails, the status of the payment will switch from `pending` to
`failed` and Lago will generate an `invoice.payment_failure`
[webhook](/api-reference/webhooks/messages).

If the new invoice amount falls below the [minimum amount supported by Stripe](https://stripe.com/docs/currencies#minimum-and-maximum-charge-amounts), the payment status will remain as `pending`.

<Warning>
  A valid payment method for the customer must be defined in Stripe for the
  payment intent to succeed ([learn how to save payment
  details](https://stripe.com/docs/payments/save-and-reuse)).
</Warning>

## Payment disputes
In the event of a **lost** payment dispute within Stripe, Lago initiates an automatic response by marking the relevant invoice as disputed lost. This action involves populating the `dispute_lost_at` field with the timestamp when the dispute was lost. Following this update:

- The invoice becomes non-voidable;
- Generating a credit note is possible; however, refunding the payment back to the original payment method is not permitted; and
- The invoice cannot be resent for collection.

Commit message:

update payment intent guide for stripe

guide/payments/stripe-integration.mdx, after:

---
title: "Stripe integration"
description:
  "Lago's native integration with Stripe allows you to collect payments
  automatically when new invoices are generated."
---

## Watch the demo video
<iframe width="100%" height="400" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/NH8MCMaHeFM" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## Integration setup[](#integration-setup "Direct link to heading")

To set up the integration with Stripe through the user interface:

1. In the side menu, select **"Settings"**;
2. Select the **"Integrations"** tab;
3. Click **"Stripe"** and add a new connection;
4. Give this new connection a name and a code;
5. Enter your Stripe API key ([locate your API key](https://support.stripe.com/questions/locate-api-keys-in-the-dashboard)); and
6. Click **"Connect to Stripe"** to confirm.

<Info>
  By default, customers created in Lago are not automatically created in Stripe.
  If you want your Lago customers to be added to Stripe, you need to activate
  this option ([learn more](#new-customer)).
</Info>

## Redirect url after checkout[](#checkout-redirect-url "Direct link to heading")
After establishing the connection with Stripe, set a success URL where your end customer will be directed after completing the checkout. 
Please note that if it's not defined, your end customer will be redirected to Stripe's website.

Please note that you can edit or delete the redirect URL, and this will only affect new checkout URLs created.

<Warning>
  URL defined should always begin with `http://` or `https://`.
</Warning>

## Customer information[](#customer-information "Direct link to heading")

To collect payments automatically, the customer must exist in both the Lago and
Stripe databases.

### New customer[](#new-customer "Direct link to heading")

If the customer does not already exist in Stripe, you can first create them in
Lago, either via the user interface or [the API](/api-reference/customers/create).
When adding customer information, you must:

1. Define Stripe as the **default payment provider**;
2. Leave the field associated with the **Stripe customer ID** blank;
3. **Enable** the option to automatically create the customer in Stripe; and
4. Define payment method options for this customer. Possible values are `card`, `link`, `sepa_debit`, `us_bank_account` and `bacs_debit`.

The customer will automatically be added to Stripe. Stripe will then return the
customer ID, which will be stored in Lago.

<Frame caption="Creation of a new customer with Stripe">
  <img src="/guide/payments/images/stripe-customer-new.png" />
</Frame>

### Existing customer[](#existing-customer "Direct link to heading")

If the customer already exists in Stripe but not in Lago, you should create the
customer record, either via the user interface or
[the API](/api-reference/customers/create). When adding customer
information, you must:

1. Define Stripe as the **default payment provider**;
2. Provide the **Stripe customer ID**;
3. **Disable** the option to automatically create the customer in Stripe; and
4. Define payment method options for this customer. Possible values are `card`, `link`, `sepa_debit`, `us_bank_account` and `bacs_debit`.


<Frame caption="Migration of an existing Stripe customer">
  <img src="/guide/payments/images/stripe-customer-migration.png" />
</Frame>

## Supported payment methods
Lago's Stripe integration accommodates a variety of payment methods, both generic and region-specific. 
The checkout URL provided by Lago is designed to handle multiple payment options seamlessly.

<AccordionGroup>
  <Accordion title="Card payments" icon="credit-card">
    Lago's Stripe integration includes a universal card payment method that supports various currencies, ideal for global transactions. 
    This method is set as the default to facilitate recurring payments, ensuring Lago can process charges for your customers efficiently.
    ```bash
        LAGO_URL="https://api.getlago.com"
    API_KEY="__YOUR_API_KEY__"

    curl --location --request POST "$LAGO_URL/api/v1/customers" \
      --header "Authorization: Bearer $API_KEY" \
      --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
      --data-raw '{
        "customer": {
          "external_id": "5eb02857-a71e-4ea2-bcf9-57d3a41bc6ba",
          "address_line1": "5230 Penfield Ave",
          "billing_configuration": {
            "invoice_grace_period": 3,
            "payment_provider": "stripe",
            "provider_customer_id": "cus_12345",
            "sync": true,
            "sync_with_provider": true,
            "provider_payment_methods": ["card"]
          }
        }
      }'
    ```
  </Accordion>
  <Accordion title="SEPA debits (EU only)" icon="money-bill-transfer">
    For European customers, Lago supports Stripe SEPA Debit (Single Euro Payments Area). 
    Accepting a mandate through this method authorizes you to debit your customers' accounts for recurring payments via Lago. 
    The designated payment method for SEPA transactions within Lago is identified as `sepa_debit`. 
    It's important to note that **this payment option is exclusive to invoices in `EUR` currency**.

    ```bash
        LAGO_URL="https://api.getlago.com"
    API_KEY="__YOUR_API_KEY__"

    curl --location --request POST "$LAGO_URL/api/v1/customers" \
      --header "Authorization: Bearer $API_KEY" \
      --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
      --data-raw '{
        "customer": {
          "external_id": "5eb02857-a71e-4ea2-bcf9-57d3a41bc6ba",
          "address_line1": "5230 Penfield Ave",
          "billing_configuration": {
            "invoice_grace_period": 3,
            "payment_provider": "stripe",
            "provider_customer_id": "cus_12345",
            "sync": true,
            "sync_with_provider": true,
            "provider_payment_methods": ["sepa_debit"]
          }
        }
      }'
    ```
  </Accordion>
  <Accordion title="ACH debits (US only)" icon="flag-usa">
    For US-based transactions, Lago integrates Stripe ACH Debit, leveraging the Automated Clearing House for electronic bank-to-bank payments. 
    Upon accepting a mandate, you gain authorization to execute recurring debits from your customers' accounts through Lago. 
    The designated payment method for ACH transactions within Lago is identified as `us_bank_account`. 
    It's important to note that **this payment option is exclusive to invoices in `USD` currency**.

    ```bash
    LAGO_URL="https://api.getlago.com"
    API_KEY="__YOUR_API_KEY__"

    curl --location --request POST "$LAGO_URL/api/v1/customers" \
      --header "Authorization: Bearer $API_KEY" \
      --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
      --data-raw '{
        "customer": {
          "external_id": "5eb02857-a71e-4ea2-bcf9-57d3a41bc6ba",
          "address_line1": "5230 Penfield Ave",
          "billing_configuration": {
            "invoice_grace_period": 3,
            "payment_provider": "stripe",
            "provider_customer_id": "cus_12345",
            "sync": true,
            "sync_with_provider": true,
            "provider_payment_methods": ["us_bank_account"]
          }
        }
      }'
    ```
  </Accordion>
  <Accordion title="BACS debits (UK only)" icon="credit-card-front">
    For UK transactions, Lago integrates Stripe BACS Debit, utilizing the UK's BACS system for direct bank-to-bank payments. 
    By accepting a mandate with this method, you're authorized to initiate recurring debits from your customers' accounts through Lago. 
    The specific payment method for BACS transactions within Lago is designated as `bacs_debit`. 
    It's important to note that **this payment method is exclusively for invoices in `GBP` currency.**

    ```bash
    LAGO_URL="https://api.getlago.com"
    API_KEY="__YOUR_API_KEY__"

    curl --location --request POST "$LAGO_URL/api/v1/customers" \
      --header "Authorization: Bearer $API_KEY" \
      --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
      --data-raw '{
        "customer": {
          "external_id": "5eb02857-a71e-4ea2-bcf9-57d3a41bc6ba",
          "address_line1": "5230 Penfield Ave",
          "billing_configuration": {
            "invoice_grace_period": 3,
            "payment_provider": "stripe",
            "provider_customer_id": "cus_12345",
            "sync": true,
            "sync_with_provider": true,
            "provider_payment_methods": ["bacs_debit"]
          }
        }
      }'
    ```
  </Accordion>
  <Accordion title="Link" icon="link">
    For card transactions, you can enable the [Link](https://stripe.com/payments/link) feature to offer one-click payments. 
    Link automatically fills in your customers' payment information, ensuring a seamless and secure checkout experience.

    <Warning>
      If you are using the `link` feature, it must be used in conjunction with `card`.
    </Warning>

    ```bash
    LAGO_URL="https://api.getlago.com"
    API_KEY="__YOUR_API_KEY__"

    curl --location --request POST "$LAGO_URL/api/v1/customers" \
      --header "Authorization: Bearer $API_KEY" \
      --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
      --data-raw '{
        "customer": {
          "external_id": "5eb02857-a71e-4ea2-bcf9-57d3a41bc6ba",
          "address_line1": "5230 Penfield Ave",
          "billing_configuration": {
            "invoice_grace_period": 3,
            "payment_provider": "stripe",
            "provider_customer_id": "cus_12345",
            "sync": true,
            "sync_with_provider": true,
            "provider_payment_methods": ["card", "link"]
          }
        }
      }'
    ```
  </Accordion>
</AccordionGroup>

## Stripe Checkout: storing customer's payment method information
<Info>
  Checkout page shows only selected payment methods for customers.
</Info>
When Lago automatically creates a customer in Stripe, you will receive a checkout link from Lago to facilitate the storage of your customer's payment method information.

The payload sent by Lago will have the following structure, with the checkout link stored under `checkout_url`:

```json
{
  "webhook_type": "customer.checkout_url_generated",
  "object_type": "payment_provider_customer_checkout_url",
  "payment_provider_customer_checkout_url": {
    "lago_customer_id": "88d23508-47fd-46bb-a87e-50c50f3cb371",
    "external_customer_id": "hooli_1234",
    "payment_provider": "stripe",
    "checkout_url": "https://checkout.stripe.com/c/pay/prod_c15sTbBMLep5FKOA9b9pZBiRBBYYSU1IJ5T89I5TTtpKgzE380JSmxnVYz#fidkdWxOYHw"
  }
}
```
<Warning>
Note: The checkout link automatically expires after 24 hours!
</Warning>

By utilizing this provided checkout link, your customers can perform a pre-authorization payment. It's important to note that the pre-authorization payment will not collect any funds from the customer. Once the pre-authorization is confirmed, Lago will send the payment method details and securely store them into Stripe for future transactions.

## Regenerate checkout link on demand
In cases where your end customer has not had the opportunity to complete the checkout process to inform their payment method 
or wishes to modify the saved payment information, you can generate a new checkout link using the designated [endpoint](/api-reference/customers/psp-checkout-url).

```bash
POST /api/v1/customers/:customer_external_id/checkout_url
```

Upon successful generation, the new checkout link will be available in the endpoint response, and it will not be delivered through a webhook message. 
It is important to note that the new link will inherit the same expiration setting as the original one.

It is crucial to be aware that if a customer is not associated with any payment provider, the response will contain an error message.

## Default payment method
When you add a new payment method in Stripe, **Lago automatically sets it as the default**. 
This guarantees that Lago uses the latest payment method for a customer. However, if you manually designate one of 
multiple payment methods as the default, Lago will use it for payments instead the most recent one.


## Payment intents[](#payment-intents "Direct link to heading")
Once Stripe is connected and the customer exists in both databases, you can
start collecting payments.

### Succeeded payments
Each time a new invoice with an **amount greater than zero** is generated by
Lago, a payment intent will automatically be created. Stripe will record the
invoice ID and process the payment. If the payment is successful, the status of
the payment will switch from `pending` to `succeeded`.

### Failed payments
If the payment fails, the status of the payment will switch from `pending` to
`failed` and Lago will generate an `invoice.payment_failure`
[webhook](/api-reference/webhooks/messages).

### Payments requiring validation
When a payment requires multi-step authentication, such as 3D Secure (3DS), Lago triggers a `payment.requires_action` [webhook](/api-reference/webhooks/messages#payment-requires-action). 
This webhook provides the URL for completing the 3DS process. It's important to note that **most payments in India require 3DS authentication** due to [RBI regulations](https://www.rbi.org.in/Scripts/NotificationUser.aspx?Id=12051&Mode=0).

### Minimum payment amount
If the new invoice amount falls below the [minimum amount supported by Stripe](https://stripe.com/docs/currencies#minimum-and-maximum-charge-amounts), the payment status will remain as `pending`.

<Warning>
  A valid payment method for the customer must be defined in Stripe for the
  payment intent to succeed ([learn how to save payment
  details](https://stripe.com/docs/payments/save-and-reuse)).
</Warning>

## Payment disputes
In the event of a **lost** payment dispute within Stripe, Lago initiates an automatic response by marking the relevant invoice as disputed lost. This action involves populating the `dispute_lost_at` field with the timestamp when the dispute was lost. Following this update:

- The invoice becomes non-voidable;
- Generating a credit note is possible; however, refunding the payment back to the original payment method is not permitted; and
- The invoice cannot be resent for collection.
