guide/subscriptions/terminate-subscription.mdx, before:

---
title: "Terminate a subscription"
description: "You can terminate a subscription at any time, whether it's active or pending."
---

## Terminate an active subscription

<Tabs>
  <Tab title="Dashboard">
    To terminate an active subscription through the user interface:
    1. Access the **"Customers"** section via the side menu;
    2. Select a customer from the list;
    3. In the **"Overview"** tab, select an active subscription; and
    4. Click **"Terminate subscription"**; and to terminate an active subscription.
  </Tab>
  <Tab title="API">
    <CodeGroup>
    ```bash Terminate an active subscription
      LAGO_URL="https://api.getlago.com"
      API_KEY="__YOUR_API_KEY__"
      EXTERNAL_ID="__YOUR_SUBSCRIPTION_ID__"

      curl --location --request DELETE "$LAGO_URL/api/v1/subscriptions/$EXTERNAL_ID" \
        --header "Authorization: Bearer $API_KEY"

    ```
    </CodeGroup>
  </Tab>
</Tabs>

### Generate a closing invoice at subscription termination
By default, Lago automatically generates a closing invoice for any **outstanding usage-based charges** or **pay-in-arrears subscription fees** that haven’t yet been invoiced.
If you don’t want to generate an invoice at termination:
<Tabs>
  <Tab title="Dashboard">
    In the Termination dialog, simply switch off the **Generate final invoice** option.
  </Tab>
  <Tab title="API">
    <CodeGroup>
    ```bash Terminate a subscription without closing invoice
      LAGO_URL="https://api.getlago.com"
      API_KEY="__YOUR_API_KEY__"
      EXTERNAL_ID="__YOUR_SUBSCRIPTION_ID__"

      curl --location --request DELETE "$LAGO_URL/api/v1/subscriptions/$EXTERNAL_ID?on_termination_invoice=skip" \
        --header "Authorization: Bearer $API_KEY"
    ```
    </CodeGroup>
  </Tab>
</Tabs>

### Generate a closing credit note at subscription termination
If the subscription fee has been **paid in advance**, Lago automatically issues a credit note for the **unused days**.
At termination, you can : 
<Tabs>
  <Tab title="Dashboard">
    In the Termination dialog, you can choose how to handle unused amounts:
    - **Skip** – Don’t generate a credit note.
    - **Refund** – If the invoice is paid or partially paid, the unused paid amount is refunded; any unpaid unused amount is credited back to the customer.
    - **Credit** (default) – The unused amount is credited back to the customer.
    
    <Frame caption="Termination options">
    ![](/guide/subscriptions/images/terminate-subscription-options.png)
    </Frame>
  </Tab>
  <Tab title="API">
    <CodeGroup>
    ```bash Terminate a subscription without closing credit note
      LAGO_URL="https://api.getlago.com"
      API_KEY="__YOUR_API_KEY__"
      EXTERNAL_ID="__YOUR_SUBSCRIPTION_ID__"

      curl --location --request DELETE "$LAGO_URL/api/v1/subscriptions/$EXTERNAL_ID?on_termination_credit_note=skip" \
        --header "Authorization: Bearer $API_KEY"
    ```
    </CodeGroup>
  </Tab>
</Tabs>


## Terminate a pending subscription

<Tabs>
  <Tab title="Dashboard">
    To terminate a pending subscription through the user interface:
    1. Access the **"Customers"** section via the side menu;
    2. Select a customer from the list;
    3. In the **"Overview"** tab, select a pending subscription (subscription set in the future or pending downgrade); and
    4. Click **"Terminate subscription"**; and to cancel a pending subscription subscription.
    
  </Tab>
  <Tab title="API">
    <CodeGroup>
    ```bash Terminate a pending subscription
        LAGO_URL="https://api.getlago.com"
        API_KEY="__YOUR_API_KEY__"
        EXTERNAL_ID="__YOUR_SUBSCRIPTION_ID__"

        curl --location --request DELETE "$LAGO_URL/api/v1/subscriptions/$EXTERNAL_ID?status=pending" \
          --header "Authorization: Bearer $API_KEY"
    ```
    </CodeGroup>
  </Tab>
</Tabs>

    <Warning>
      To ensure the termination of a pending subscription, it is crucial to include the `?status=pending` filter in your endpoint. 
      Neglecting to do so will render any termination attempts ineffective.
    </Warning>

Commit message:

doc(Subscription): Add offset as termination method

guide/subscriptions/terminate-subscription.mdx, after:

---
title: "Terminate a subscription"
description: "You can terminate a subscription at any time, whether it's active or pending."
---

## Terminate an active subscription

<Tabs>
  <Tab title="Dashboard">
    To terminate an active subscription through the user interface:
    1. Access the **"Customers"** section via the side menu;
    2. Select a customer from the list;
    3. In the **"Overview"** tab, select an active subscription; and
    4. Click **"Terminate subscription"**; and to terminate an active subscription.
  </Tab>
  <Tab title="API">
    <CodeGroup>
    ```bash Terminate an active subscription
      LAGO_URL="https://api.getlago.com"
      API_KEY="__YOUR_API_KEY__"
      EXTERNAL_ID="__YOUR_SUBSCRIPTION_ID__"

      curl --location --request DELETE "$LAGO_URL/api/v1/subscriptions/$EXTERNAL_ID" \
        --header "Authorization: Bearer $API_KEY"

    ```
    </CodeGroup>
  </Tab>
</Tabs>

### Generate a closing invoice at subscription termination
By default, Lago automatically generates a closing invoice for any **outstanding usage-based charges** or **pay-in-arrears subscription fees** that haven’t yet been invoiced.
If you don’t want to generate an invoice at termination:
<Tabs>
  <Tab title="Dashboard">
    In the Termination dialog, simply switch off the **Generate final invoice** option.
  </Tab>
  <Tab title="API">
    <CodeGroup>
    ```bash Terminate a subscription without closing invoice
      LAGO_URL="https://api.getlago.com"
      API_KEY="__YOUR_API_KEY__"
      EXTERNAL_ID="__YOUR_SUBSCRIPTION_ID__"

      curl --location --request DELETE "$LAGO_URL/api/v1/subscriptions/$EXTERNAL_ID?on_termination_invoice=skip" \
        --header "Authorization: Bearer $API_KEY"
    ```
    </CodeGroup>
  </Tab>
</Tabs>

### Generate a closing credit note at subscription termination
If the subscription fee has been **paid in advance**, Lago automatically issues a credit note for the **unused days**.
At termination, you can : 
<Tabs>
  <Tab title="Dashboard">
    In the Termination dialog, you can choose how to handle unused amounts:
    - **Skip** – Don’t generate a credit note.
    - **Offset** — The unused due amount is offset against the invoice, reducing the remaining amount due.
    - **Refund** – If the invoice is paid or partially paid, the unused paid amount is refunded; any unpaid unused amount is credited back to the customer.
    - **Credit** (default) – The unused amount is credited back to the customer.
    
    <Frame caption="Termination options">
    ![](/guide/subscriptions/images/terminate-subscription-options.png)
    </Frame>
  </Tab>
  <Tab title="API">
    <CodeGroup>
    ```bash Terminate a subscription without closing credit note
      LAGO_URL="https://api.getlago.com"
      API_KEY="__YOUR_API_KEY__"
      EXTERNAL_ID="__YOUR_SUBSCRIPTION_ID__"

      curl --location --request DELETE "$LAGO_URL/api/v1/subscriptions/$EXTERNAL_ID?on_termination_credit_note=skip" \
        --header "Authorization: Bearer $API_KEY"
    ```
    </CodeGroup>
  </Tab>
</Tabs>


## Terminate a pending subscription

<Tabs>
  <Tab title="Dashboard">
    To terminate a pending subscription through the user interface:
    1. Access the **"Customers"** section via the side menu;
    2. Select a customer from the list;
    3. In the **"Overview"** tab, select a pending subscription (subscription set in the future or pending downgrade); and
    4. Click **"Terminate subscription"**; and to cancel a pending subscription subscription.
    
  </Tab>
  <Tab title="API">
    <CodeGroup>
    ```bash Terminate a pending subscription
        LAGO_URL="https://api.getlago.com"
        API_KEY="__YOUR_API_KEY__"
        EXTERNAL_ID="__YOUR_SUBSCRIPTION_ID__"

        curl --location --request DELETE "$LAGO_URL/api/v1/subscriptions/$EXTERNAL_ID?status=pending" \
          --header "Authorization: Bearer $API_KEY"
    ```
    </CodeGroup>
  </Tab>
</Tabs>

    <Warning>
      To ensure the termination of a pending subscription, it is crucial to include the `?status=pending` filter in your endpoint. 
      Neglecting to do so will render any termination attempts ineffective.
    </Warning>
